Transgender No More 
  
 
 
 
 
Zoe Dolan 2015 
  
“To my soul: 
Are you ever going to achieve goodness? 
Ever going to be simple, whole, and naked – 
as plain to see as the body that contains you?” 
 
– Marcus Aurelius, Meditations 
 
  
When Did You First Know? 
 
“I mean, you have tits now,” he said. 
At the beginning of 2015 – the “Year We Obsessed Over Identity,” as The New York Times observed – I disrobed during a video interview for the What’s Underneath project by Style Like U. The first question was: When did you first know? 
As in, When did you first know you were a woman? 
Would you believe me if I told you that I don’t know if I’ve ever known, since I don’t really know what a woman is, other than a concept that exists outside me – still, I know that I have felt like one, a woman I mean, yet the only way I first knew was from males? Will you suspend prejudgment long enough to entertain the possibility that gender can be so relative? 
To understand where I am coming from, consider how “When did you first know?” unfolds into pieces: the question presupposes that knowing anything about the self is possible, and that the words for apprehending and describing such knowledge can express the phenomenon at work beneath the surface. 
Take, for instance, the preliminary assumption that we may ever know anything about ourselves – especially when it comes to a realm that involves intimacy with others. In my case, looking back on the past, I see a history of romantic relationships, mostly with men, but also, here and there, with women, that have ended. Have we not been conditioned, at least to some degree, to measure success in life with the benchmark of committed love? If I have failed to attract and sustain an intimate relationship to the present, can I say that I know myself, or, for that matter, any aspect of the world? 
The self exists in relation to others. For me, like the question “When did you first know?” – or perhaps any ontological inquiry, for that matter – understanding the relativity of being starts with examining how assumptions affect preconceptions in the guise of truth. 
Think about what it means to be a member of a social group that comprises a minority of a minority. 
Does identification with others necessarily involve negotiating the terms of identity? As I will talk about later, there are any number of definitions for the word “transgender” depending on where you look – personally, I feel some may apply to me; others seem way too broad, or confusing and nonsensical, if not mercurial. 
When I asked my phone for a definition of transgender at the time of writing these words, this one popped up: “denoting or relating to a person whose self-identity does not conform unambiguously to conventional notions of male or female gender.” In other words – transgender people fall into a sort of third, or alternate, gender? 
Although that conception may have fit while I was transitioning – for instance, after I began “living as female” (whatever that means) but before surgery – the notion seems inappropriate now that my anatomy is female. 
Plus, there is a social dimension: I use female restroom and locker room facilities, others address me with “Ms.” out there in the world, I date men who identify as straight, I check the “female” box on forms, and so on. 
I transitioned in the early 2000s, before social and institutional media turned a spotlight on personal identity in general, and being transgender in particular. Whatever the reason for so much noise these days about gender identity – Was it gay marriage becoming a fait acommpli and leaving the LGBT movement in need of a new cause célèbre to rally around? The evolution of civil rights to include those of us who had been marginalized in the fight for equality? Or perhaps just plain old hunger for something that seemed new? – “transgender” has been repeated to the point where meaning is lost. 
At some point of expansion, the center implodes. So, what if – just as gravity operates in general relativity – the force that appears to be pulling us toward other people is simply a property of being human? 
It may be apostasy to wonder whether, as “transgender” continues moving toward an ever distant horizon, anyone can identify with the multifariousness of the word. It may also seem retrogressive – indeed, reactionary – to define the self, and specifically femininity, in relation to men, as I do in this essay. 
But the reality is that, even as society changes, its ingredients remain the same. And even if the world appears to yield something new under the sun, the principle of relativity holds as constant as being human ever was. 
  
Unbearably New Under the Sun 
 
A human’s sex is determined at the time of conception, however, sexual differentiation only occurs in the fourth month of pregnancy. The sex organs of a male fetus and a female fetus look identical before then. 
The realm of the spirit yields archetypes that can be just as unified. In The Unbearable Lightness of Being, for example, Milan Kundera recalled the myth from Plato’s Symposium that has borne upon romantic love for centuries: “People were hermaphrodites until God split them in two, and now all the halves wander the world over seeking one another. Love is the longing for the half of ourselves that we have lost.” 
Western literature has stoked this idealism through modern times in explorations of identity. No later than 1928, Virginia Woolf wrote about a sort of magical gender transition in Orlando: A Biography: “Orlando had become a woman — there is no denying it. But in every other respect, Orlando remained precisely as he had been. The change of sex, though it altered their future, did nothing whatever to alter their identity. Their faces remained, as their portraits prove, practically the same. His memory — but in future we must, for convention’s sake, say ‘her’ for ‘his,’ and ‘she’ for ‘he’— her memory then, went back through all the events of her past life without encountering any obstacle.” 
Gore Vidal sparked scandal four decades later in 1968 with his novel Myra Breckenridge, the tale of a woman in Hollywood who had “this scar where cock and balls should be.” Yet for all the book’s shock and titillation at the time, as in Orlando, Vidal tethered the phenomenon of changing sex to individual identity: “[i]t is impossible to sort out all one’s feelings on any given subject, and so perhaps it is wise never to take on any subject other than one’s own protean but still manageable self.” 
The first known sex change surgeries were performed in Berlin, Germany in the early 1930s, and advances followed after World War II. Dr. Harry Benjamin, an endocrinologist born in Germany who later practiced in San Francisco, California, wrote The Transsexual Phenomenon in 1966, and published standards of care for transsexual people in 1979. One of Dr. Benjamin’s patients was Christine Jorgensen, who underwent surgeries in Europe to become female during the early 1950s, and returned to fame in the United States as a blond bombshell. By the end of the millennium, awareness of treatment had spread: in 1987, for example, Ayatollah Komeini issued a fatwa sanctioning sex change surgery for transsexuals – and now Iran is apparently second only to Thailand in the number of such surgeries performed every year. 
Yet even as sex change surgeons have achieved proficiency in correcting flaws of nature – once, in a surreal conversation, a man claimed I was lying about being transgender after he saw my vulva – the transgender movement in the West has begun to reject a dichotomy from which the concept of changing sex necessarily arose: binary gender. 
An example of this shift is an article by M. Dru Levasseur, Esq., the Director of the Transgender Rights Project for the Lambda Legal Defense & Education Fund, Inc., entitled, “Gender Identity Defines Sex: Updating the Law to Reflect Modern Medical Science Is Key to Transgender Rights,” which appeared in the Summer 2015 issue of the Vermont Law Review. (Disclaimer: Levasseur and I are friends.) 
Of gender dysphoria, the name for the condition that afflicts transgender people, Levasseur observed, in line with a conventional dual gender approach, “The availability of a diagnostic classification serves to facilitate appropriate treatment, which alters the mutable primary and secondary sex characteristics to match the core self-identity, rather than alter the fixed, core gender identity.” 
But Levasseur went on to posit a theory that would redefine the presumptions upon which society’s understanding of sex is based: “If the goal for transgender people is to provide for the most self-determination under the law, we must go to the root of the reason for ‘changing’ one’s sex. . . . Transition is not altering one’s sex, but affirming one’s underlying gender identity. It is not done to evade or to be someone you are not; rather, it is to realize who you deeply are.” 
And the result? “Sex is multifaceted,” Levasseur concluded, “and of the multiple factors that determine sex, gender identity must be given primary weight, as the single most important biological determinant of sex.” 
Pause and reflect on that sentence. 
Does Levasseur’s theory imply that divisions of the gender binary dissipate upon scrutiny, and, regardless of the body, maleness and femaleness inevitably broaden to the point where they meld into a third gender? 
  
Close Encounters of a Third Gender 
 
At the beginning of the 2015 school year, Harvard University announced that students would be able to choose from a list of gender-neutral pronouns such as “ze,” “hir,” and “hirs.” 
While advocates cheered this development as progressivism, multiple genders are as old as the ages. In South Asia, for example, hijras – people whose identity falls outside binary gender divisions – have existed in society for centuries. (In modern times, at least some of the stigma imposed by British colonialism has been partially reversed, and now Bangladesh, India and Pakistan legally recognize hijras as members of a “third gender.”) 
Similarly, a number of indigenous North American cultures have incorporated “two-spirited” people – individuals whose spirits comprise both male and female essences – into their tribes throughout recorded history. The Zuni tribe in the American Southwest revered two-spirited members with spiritual and artistic roles, and their two-spirited representative We’Wha traveled to Washington, D.C., where she represented her tribe and met President Grover Cleveland, in 1886.  
The list goes on – PBS produced a map of gender-diverse cultures around the globe, which is available online. Of genders embodying both male and female spirits, the introduction to the map notes, “Most Western societies have no direct correlation for this tradition, nor for the many other communities without strict either/or conceptions of sex, sexuality, and gender. Worldwide, the sheer variety of gender expression is almost limitless.” 
For me – a transsexual whose identity revolves at least in part around a gender binary – whether the refraction of multiplicity in the gender spectrum is a good thing depends on the extent to which acceptance follows. Unfortunately, challenging the gender binary can create unease that the transgender movement only exacerbates – with consequences to transgender people who do not necessarily identify as a third, or other, gender. 
Indeed, in her Op-Ed for The New York Times “What Makes a Woman?,” journalist, former professor and filmmaker Elinor Burkett identified what she considers to be an undercurrent of indignation among regular women with regard to transgender people: “Many women I know, of all ages and races, speak privately about how insulting we find the language trans activists use to explain themselves.” 
The resentment seems based on erosion of exclusivity in the gender dichotomy: “For me and many women, feminist and otherwise,” Burkett explained, “one of the difficult parts of witnessing and wanting to rally behind the movement for transgender rights is the language that a growing number of trans individuals insist on, the notions of femininity that they’re articulating, and their 
disregard for the fact that being a woman means having accrued certain experiences, endured certain indignities and relished certain courtesies in a culture that reacted to you as one.” 
Political correctness can present a pitfall in the discourse here, and the vigor with which the transgender movement discourages openness may broaden the chasm between who we are as individuals and our image as a group. In June of 2014, for instance, there was Katie Couric’s interview with actress Laverne Cox. Couric raised the topic of sex change surgery, which Cox deflected to other issues facing transgender people: “The preoccupation with transition and surgery objectifies trans people. And then we don’t get to really deal with the real lived experiences.” 
My heart sinks as I read Cox’s words even now. The agony of living in the wrong body was my real lived experience, and it defined me as a transgender person. Surgery was medically necessary to my realization as a human being; without the operation I would not be who I am. 
Regardless of what anyone says, there is no escaping that some people – if not many or even most – would classify human beings as male or female based on anatomy. Differences in bodies are real. So are the impressions of others. Is it really our place to claim that how they see things is wrong? 
  
In the Male Gaze 
 
We saw each other for the first time in two decades at our 20th high school reunion. “I mean, you have tits now,” he said. 
What I wouldn’t give to understand – from his perspective – how the change in me changed things. 
Adam played on the football team, and was about as all-American as they come. By our sophomore year, he had already grown big and bulky, and, once we were juniors, he was a stud. Just as vital as the physique he sported, his mind shone with interest in lots of areas, while his affinity for the television version of gay author Armistad Maupin’s Tales of the City tantalized me with the possibility that he might be receptive to my crush. I spent a whole semester of history class waiting for an opportunity to present itself – until finally I just showed up at his house in the middle of the night, knocked on his bedroom window, and, after a half hour of dithering around, managed to offer up the burden of a secret from my heart to his. 
Let me back up. I went to two 20th high school reunions because I graduated high school in three years. As in other aspects of life – yes, like my gender – I was in both classes at various points, but in a way a member of neither. 
Anxiety about the first reunion had lifted once I saw a number of my friends at a memorial service for one of our group, a couple of years before. We lost a source of light when she passed away, but we regained memories when the loss brought us back together like boomerangs. 
In the car to the airport after the service, one of the three guys I was with – all of whom I had known since at least seventh grade, and two since elementary school – asked who had changed the most. I lost out despite my certainty that a gender transition would carry the day, when they all agreed that, in fact, I had not changed at all. 
I gazed out the window at the San Francisco Bay, thinking about how all three of these guys had been married with children for years at that point. Perhaps they were right: I was the same solo person I had always been. 
For more than a decade up until then, I had believed that changing my sex changed me more than it did: I relished the first time I dove into a swimming pool after surgery and felt my body – every square inch of it – free underwater. I clung to my mom’s observation, during a conversation about boy trouble in my early 30s, that I “just don’t understand men.” There was the admission from a law school classmate that she liked Zoe a whole lot more than the male person I’d lived as, 
and the remark from a family friend that I was smiling in all my pictures now, which she couldn’t remember me doing since I was a little kid. And there were all my new paintings of boyfriends and me together in moments of joy, whereas my artwork as a teenager was of other people, separated by the distance of emotions, and alone. 
These changes were real.  
Weren’t they? 
Any traces of doubt had dissolved by the time the second reunion rolled around. 
Following the main event, we coalesced at the childhood home of another former football player, Adam’s teammate, whose parents were out of town just like so many weekends we ended up there during high school. 
In the kitchen around midnight, finally the chance came to thank Adam for taking my disclosure of feelings so gracefully, and with a maturity that exceeded his then 16-and-a-half years, so long ago. 
He remembered our conversation, he said, and was glad that my transition had worked out. 
I smiled, placed my hand on his shoulder blade for an instant, and let the moment pass into what had been. 
On the ride back to the house out in the countryside where four girlfriends and I were staying the night, one of them, a friend I had not seen since graduation, looked over at me. 
“Why the tears?” she asked. 
I explained how Adam remembering a conversation so important to my life really touched me, and, with a poignancy I struggled to bear, how speaking to him all these years later caused me to wonder whether, had I been born in the right body, with not just tits as he noticed now, but with everything inside and out where it was supposed to be from the very beginning, he might have liked me back – which, in turn, led me to think about how everything would have been different, life itself. 
Mercifully she did not feed my self-pity. 
“I can relate,” she said. Then she told me about how, when we were in high school, she felt guys did not see her for who she was, either – self-confidence took time. 
I took tissue paper to bed in anticipation of crying myself to sleep. Instead I drifted away with the consolation that being transgender only drives me apart from others if I let it; at the heart of identity is human experience, which is something we all share. 
Still, a sense of longing lingered the next day, and the next – and then it rose to the surface again less than three weeks later. 
Female Sperm 
 
The e-mail – from a man I had just met – asked whether, prior to surgery, I had preserved my sperm so I could have children with my own genes. Although my inability to bear children has impacted my romantic life even more than being transgender has, this e-mail was the first time that question arose since I had transitioned over a dozen years prior. 
Back then, I ran a gauntlet to prove I was transsexual: I traveled over to the East Bay from San Francisco once a week for psychotherapy with a gender specialist. I registered with a transgender care clinic, where I underwent screening – and further counseling – to make sure. Meanwhile, my supervising nurse practitioner thought it a good idea to wait until finishing my spring law school exams before starting hormone replacement therapy, and on and on… 
Until finally the day came. Unable to delay a second longer, I swallowed my first estrogen pill on Market Street – injections would come later, after my body acclimated – right outside the pharmacy. 
One component of the counseling and therapy included acknowledging that, after a while, I would no longer be able to procreate. Over time, I would produce less and less semen, and I would become sterile. 
After surgery, of course, my body would stop producing any semen or testosterone at all. 
Thank God. 
There was nothing I wanted to rid myself of more than the errors of nature that made my body male. 
Still, my counselor at the clinic had presented an option: before starting estrogen, I could contact a sperm bank and freeze my sperm. 
You know, if I wanted to. Just in case. 
My stomach turned. I thought I would vomit. 
I shudder and feel sick when I think about the idea to this day. 
In elementary school, before the realities of life and making a living encroached on dreams, I imagined living in a nice big house with a family of six kids – three boys and three girls. Then, in my adolescent years and early 20s, as I began dating men, I started thinking about adoption as a possibility. By the time I reached my late 30s – where I loiter as I write these words – I could count two regrets at the heart of it all: not sticking with the first guy I ever slept with when I was 16 years 
old (such a tender young man!), and not transitioning sooner – the next worst thing to being born and growing up in the wrong body altogether. 
For a number of years I hoped I would meet someone special who could see past this defect to the fulfillment of giving a home to one or more children in need of parents and a family. My dad is adopted, as are my aunt and my sister-in-law. Adoption always seemed natural to me; I was taught that my grandma was just as much my grandma as she was my father’s mother – much like the exchange students who lived with my mother’s family were my Swiss aunt and uncle, and their children my cousins. Bonds of family made no distinction. 
All of which is why I ended up so unprepared for dating as an adult woman – especially in New York, where the male-to-female ratio favors men – at a time in life when the window was closing on marriage and kids. 
The first guy I dated for any period of time after surgery was really cute. We met at the Met and lounged around in the Egypt room as I remembered that faraway country where I had started my transition years ago. 
Sometimes the prison of being transsexual makes reality feel like someone else’s life – not just when I remember the past, but when a man sees me there still. 
Sure enough, that first post-surgery boyfriend ended our relationship a couple months after it began, within minutes of disclosure. 
He wanted to have children of his own, he explained. He always had. 
Just like me. 
Time went on and a decade of variations on the same theme followed – until one evening at dusk I found myself on the stoop of the Russian-Turkish Baths on East 10th Street, chatting with a friend I’d known from the saunas and steam rooms downstairs for two or three years. He talked about how his relationship with his girlfriend was changing, and happened to mention that he could not impregnate a woman due to a condition from birth. 
Afterward, my mind wandered to how life might have unfolded had I met and fallen in love with a man who, in his own way, could understand. 
I left behind any part of me that might have fathered a child because it would have felt like someone else doing so: I want to be with a man, not be one. 
 
  
Are Transsexuals Transgender? 
 
If I am a lousy feminist for admitting that men first made me feel female, I would be even more remiss as a humanist in trying to convince you otherwise. 
Where I will claim feminism, so be it at the risk of ostracism, is in challenging the taboo on talking about sex change surgery. I prefer the term “sex change surgery” over the politically correct “sex reassignment surgery,” since, when I look down, I see a body that was changed, not just “reassigned.”  Moreover, the euphemism – misnomer, even – conceals a question that the transgender movement seeks to dissuade us from asking: Are transsexuals transgender? 
By transsexual, I mean people who undergo surgery to change their sex to match their gender. By transgender, I mean – well, what, exactly, does “transgender” mean these days – can anyone know? 
Webster’s, GLAAD and Google all have different definitions of “transgender.” Wikipedia takes three paragraphs to define the term – into abstraction. 
One thing I do know is that, before I had surgery, I assumed a stance of militancy about gender. I got angry when I was “misgendered,” or when others expressed confusion or ignorance about anything transgender. 
The reason why was that I had something to prove. I did not, despite my protestations to the contrary, feel fully female yet. 
And rather than face the truth, I unleashed this insecurity through frustration with others for failing to understand what I myself failed to bring to life: my own identity. 
Prior to surgery I lived in shame. I walked hunched forward, heavy on my feet, instead of wearing life like a summer dress and opening my heart to the world. I changed under a towel in the women’s locker room. And I sought out men who reinforced my feeling of less than, while I pushed away compassion. 
Going to bed with guys who were into pre-op transgender women was really weird. Sure, I appreciated the chance to be with someone, to kiss him, and to be touched. Yet their sexuality unnerved me: fixation on the one remnant of maleness on my body began to cause nausea just as the idea of fathering had. After all, I did not gender transition because everything was wonderful; I went through it because living in the wrong body was the suffocation of hell. 
Surgery made a difference in everything for me. 
A few months after my operation, during a discussion about identity and relationships between the sexes, my dad said, “You’ve graduated from being transgender. You’re not trans-anything now. ‘Trans’ has to do with movement and change, and you’re done changing. You’re a woman.” 
The problem is, some men did not see it that way. (Nor do they still.) 
“So, when do you think I should talk about the subject?” I asked. 
On the one hand, I explained, I want to give men a chance to know me before my past drives them away. On the other, I should protect myself from falling for someone incapable of falling back. 
“You have to figure that out,” my dad said, suggesting that the conversation should happen before either person starts to feel emotions for the other. 
So the upshot is that I am no longer transgender…until I am again. The point at which it happens varies in each instance, and there is no telling whether the difference will matter. 
There is, at least, one thing that remains constant: the effect of being loved. 
And here is where I will be a lousy feminist. 
In love, all the characteristics of the experience that you would recognize come into play – joy, passion, desire, infatuation, and comfort in the world. Yet for me there is another component: getting to feel like a woman. 
I mean, I have tits now – I grew them myself. And they have indeed changed things, even if femininity is more than the outside and I am the same person within. After all, a different body attracts different people: I am straight, pretty much, and, as far as I know, so are the men I date. 
Except for young adulthood (when my face remained androgynous and I wore long lair), I spent my life up until my mid-20s being identified by people as male. I moved about in male bathrooms and locker rooms, where others behaved as if there were no females around, and, in romance and the bedroom, all of my boyfriends were either gay or bisexual. 
The world I experience is no longer the same now, which brings me back to the question of when I first knew I was female: Would you believe me if I told you that I don’t know if I’ve ever known, since I don’t really know what a woman is, other than a concept that exists outside me – still, I know that I have felt like one, a woman that is, yet the way I know is from males? 
I confess: how else can I have any idea how a woman feels, except through the sense of being desired, body and soul, by a man? 
Intimacy after surgery has at times been a lantern in the dark as I swam through the night of transition across the river in between me and whom I could be. I might have grown lost without the men who helped along the way. They saw me as female before I did, really; they saw beyond 
transgender – to me. And there, a place of potentiality, they made love with the woman they perceived. 
In The Meaning of Human Existence, biologist Edward O. Wilson wrote, “The stories that compose the conscious mind cannot be taken away from the mind’s physical neurobiological system, which serves as script writer, director, and cast combined. The self, despite the illusion of its independence created in the scenarios, is part of the anatomy and physiology of the body.” 
Changing my physical form to match my soul made a difference – the only question is to what degree. 
  
A Woman of Men 
 
Almost two millennia ago the Roman emperor Marcus Aurelius wrote in his Meditations, “Look how tiring it is – this cacophony we live in. Enough to make you say to death, ‘Come quickly. Before I start to forget myself, like them.’” 
The noise continues, as everything, and nothing, continue to change into the same all over again. 
Burkett began her Op-Ed “What Makes a Woman?” with an interrelated question: “Do women and men have different brains?” She recounted the story of Lawrence H. Summers, a former president of Harvard who was excoriated when he suggested that male and female brains were indeed different. Then the piece turned to Caitlyn Jenner, who, Burkett wrote, was “lionized” for bravery, and even for progressivism, because she defined her femininity based on that very assumption: “My brain is much more female than it is male,” Jenner told interviewer Diane Sawyer. 
Such certainty eludes me. I lay no claim on knowing how a woman thinks, since “a woman” is an abstraction, and, in any event, I believe one may never know oneself in totality, let alone the mind of another. 
Awareness of limitations opens up the possibilities they contain, however. Another observation from Aurelius makes the point: “Not to know what the world is is to be ignorant of where you are. Not to know why it’s here is to be ignorant of who you are. And what is.” 
When I say that I only knew that I felt like a woman through the prism of being with men, what I mean is: that sensation is how the feeling began. 
Austrian author Hermann Broch’s description of a young woman losing her virginity in his novel The Guiltless springs to mind: “And there follows (after a little awkwardness and a little pain, but with the gravity of the self-evident) the primordial surprise, the eternal surprise which – even when it does not, as now, occur for the first time, but has become usual and customary – is always irradiated with the shine of the first time and must always, invariably, come as a surprise: the sinking, the fitting, of two human bodies into one another.” 
I’ve quoted this passage elsewhere, and there is no hiding why. For me, Broch’s unity mirrors Plato’s ideal of love, and both reflect the reality of being human: we experience ourselves in relation to others. 
In my own life, the promise land on the other side of changing sex lay beyond dictates about my identity, my gender, and any ideas, thoughts or feelings I wished to impose. Being myself means 
acceptance from friends, family, and society – for who any of us can be is just one human being among humanity. 
Our history reveals that whatever seems new under the sun may amount to no more than a happenstance of perception at any moment. As Burkett observed, “Women like me are not lost in false paradoxes; we were smashing binary views of male and female well before most Americans had ever heard the word ‘transgender’ or used the word ‘binary’ as an adjective.” 
She is right: other women did come first. And we are all of us their children. 
Still, identifying as transgender can make a demand on people that distinguishes this identity from others. Even though I present myself to a potential intimate partner as I am right now, I nevertheless recognize that he could view me otherwise in light of my past. Attraction between us might, for him, spark a question about manhood – or even the nature of his own sexuality. Intimacy asks for patience in receptivity to the sinking, the fitting, of two human souls into a moment together. 
Now, could it be that – in such an instant of union – maleness and femaleness unfeather into their essence, somewhere in between both genders and any others, a merging of gender expression as in the undifferentiated body we all once had? 
It’s all relative. 
“Don’t ever forget these things: The nature of the world. My nature. How I relate to the world. What proportion of it I make up. That you are part of nature, and no one can prevent you from speaking and acting in harmony with it, always,” Aurelius said. 
I may be a woman of men, but I am a woman still – and distilled – as we vanish into one. 
The feeling then is transgender no more. 
 
Los Angeles, California 
Fall 2015
