  
There Is Room for You 
 
~~ 
 
Tales from a Transgender Defender’s Heart 
 
 
Zoe Dolan 
 
 
 
  
Dedicated to: 
UC Hastings College of the Law, 
New York University, 
The University of Chicago, and 
The American University of Cairo, 
each of which will receive a portion 
of the proceeds from sales of this book, 
and my family. 
 
Zoe Dolan 2015. All rights reserved. 
 
Cover photograph: self-portrait by Zoe Dolan 
 
  
“…for what undiscoverable existence was still worth while to keep oneself awake? what future was worth this unspeakable effort to remember?” 
~~ Hermann Broch, The Death of Virgil 
 
“All of which amounts doubtless but to saying that as the whole conduct of life consists of things done, which do other things in their turn, just so our behaviour and its fruits are essentially one and continuous and persistent and unquenchable, so the act has its way of abiding and showing and testifying, and so, among our innumerable acts, are no arbitrary, no senseless separations.” 
~~ Henry James, The Golden Bowl 
 
“The joy of life is in the everyday living of it.” 
~~ My Dad 
  
  
Preface 
 
Would you and I be the same if anything had happened differently before now? How do our experiences play into the conception we form of our place in society? In what ways do the personal and political realms of our value systems intertwine? Why did we choose what we do to fill our days and make a living, instead of something else? 
In the fall of 2001, after having returned from a year abroad in Egypt, I was on my knees at the nadir of sex addiction and could not see a way out of the isolation all around. A little over a dozen years later, I was at trial in a case that the White House had commented on, standing up to a federal judge who threatened to sanction me for seeking exculpatory material on behalf of my client, Suleiman Abu Ghayth, a son-in-law of Usama bin Laden and the allegedly highest-ranked al-Qaeda suspect to face charges in a civilian court in the United States. 
This collection of tales aims to be the book I would have wanted to read at the beginning of that journey, or at forks in the road along the way, to know that I was not alone. The first part, Adrift on the Nile, begins with my memory of an anti-gay raid by Egyptian State Security Police on the Queen Boat, a floating discotheque in Cairo, where I last saw my friend Mahmoud, and then looks back over the preceding years I spent in New York, Guatemala and the Middle East. The second part, The Heart in San Francisco, recounts my gender transition as a first-year law student, recovery from sex addiction and a sexual assault, and life as an associate at a small law firm against the odds. The final part, An Ivory Tower of New York ~~ which incorporates court documents and transcripts from real cases (corrected only for typographical errors and consistency of style) ~~ is about jumping off a cliff to start my own firm and fly solo as an advocate of my clients’ rights. 
Have faith that whatever seems left dangling or unresolved will unfurl later, much as it did for me. As Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr., who served on the Supreme Court of the United States for three decades, through the age of 90 in 1932, observed: “The life of the law has not been logic; it has been experience.” 
  
I. 
Adrift on the Nile 
  
May 11, 2001, Cairo, Egypt. On the dancefloor of the Queen Boat, when an Egyptian State Security Police Officer clasped my arm to arrest me, but let go when I said, “I am American.” 
It was the second time I had lived in Egypt. Except for a couple months in Syria and three weeks in Iran, I had been there about a year. Of all my experiences in life so far, the incident on the Queen Boat is one I have thought about almost every day. How could I ever forget? 
The country had changed since I first studied abroad at the American University of Cairo (AUC), as a 19-year-old college student in 1996. The mid-‘90s were another time ~~ every other cab driver I met would ask me where I was from. When I responded, they would look at me in the rearview mirror, give a thumbs up and say, “Clinton, good.” Then they would wink and say, through a smile, “Mooo-nica.” 
I wore long hair, so most cabbies addressed me as female even though I was still male-bodied at the time. The pitch of my voice did not seem to perturb them; many just chatted away with me in Arabic about the pleasures, despite the traffic, of life in Egypt. 
Those cab rides would come to encapsulate Cairo for me. There were few stoplights anywhere in the city that functioned, and people ignored those that did. The objective was to propel oneself through space, either as a driver or a pedestrian, in the direction of a destination, and, insha’allah, pray for the best to prevail. What’s more, the taxis’ meters did not work, and the drivers usually didn’t ask for any particular fee; the passengers would gauge how much to pay based on the distance, the traffic, and the time. 
Cairo lumbers out of bed under protest and intensifies as the morning progresses, teeming by lunchtime into a crescendo of gridlock. In the process, the nerves of the city coalesce in a jitter 
that trembles the afternoons on the precipice of chaos for hours, until, in a twist of magic around dusk, everything calms down and life morphs into a symphony of surrender on the banks of the Nile. At night the city wanders through the smoke of sheesha pipes toward the wee hours, eventually collapsing back into bed too late for anything but a flicker of respite, which is over before it began. And at once the cycle starts up all over again. 
Through it all, the metropolis plays in a movie upon the windows of the taxi cabs ~~ projecting a mish-mash of small buildings next to tall ones, modern edifices adjacent to remnants of French colonialism and Art Deco, crowds of people wearing hijab and galibiya and dress suits punctuated by someone in a miniskirt or a sand-covered ex-patriate, mixed together in a cauldron boiling up with reactions that occur when the East and the West are combined. Cairo pounds with tradition and innovation and donkey carts carrying propane on busy streets and fast food joints and alleyways leading to the bellies of cafés hidden away; plucked by the present, the city vibrates history in a string of civilization that extends back to the genesis of time beneath the dust that arrives on wind from the desert in tons by the day. 
But all those cab rides and conversations happened later on. I arrived in Egypt for the first time on one of the summer nights I would come to love, as Cairo came to life after grumbling through another long and sultry day. With the window down and the warm air on my face, my eyes drank in each sight on the drive from the airport to the hotel downtown where I spent my virgin night, the Cleopatra in Tahrir Square ~~ the square where, 15 years later, there would be political demonstrations against President Hosni Mubarak, and then against President Mohamed Morsi two years after that, neither of which spectacle could have been imagined when I arrived in 1996. 
Oh, the people here live in buildings too, just like back home. 
The thought sounds trite, I know, but there is a story 
behind it. I was studying dramatic writing at Tisch School of the Arts at New York University (NYU), and my lofty linguistic-philosophical ambitions had led me to believe that learning a totally different foreign language from the ground up would illuminate English for me in a way that would make me a better writer. I narrowed the choices down to the most widely spoken languages to which I had had no exposure: Russian, Mandarin or Arabic. 
Which one seemed interesting? Russian threatened to be dull, despite my love of Russian literature ~~ The Brothers Karamazov was the first grown-up book I read; it had kept me up nights on a trip to visit family in Nebraska when I was 15 ~~ because the Cold War was over. That error in judgment, which I chalk up to the folly of youth to which we are all entitled for a while, was mistake number one. 
Mandarin was out because I figured China was innocuous. That interpretation was based on nothing, really, except having been torn to emotional shreds by the actress Gong Li in Raise the Red Lantern and Farewell My Concubine  ~~ which I realize makes no sense. It didn’t then either. Mistake number two. 
But Arabic? I knew little about Arabs or their culture, and surely their perspective presented a mystery. I was ignorant about the Middle East save that Lawrence of Arabia was a good read, if an elusive one, and that Peter O’Toole seemed made for David Lean’s rendition of the book; and that, at some point west of where Lawrence of Arabia was set, you’d run into the writer Paul Bowles ensconced in Tangiers, turning over rocks beneath the human soul in a way that inspired Bernardo Bertolucci to make a film version of Bowles’s first novel The Sheltering Sky. The film mesmerized me with its cinematography just as much as did Bowles’s turns of phrase into moral depravity. 
I recognized that my view of the Middle East was formed, at best, by the corrosion of Orientalism that the cultural 
critic Edward Said had written about, a phenomenon which I decried while falling prey to it ~~ so I figured I should learn Arabic and go live among the Arabs for a while. The decision turned my first two mistakes into casualties of necessity. 
* 
NYU had no student exchange programs with any institutions of higher education in the Middle East. Undeterred, I chose AUC in Egypt and created a program for myself. 
The origins of this tendency to swim upstream lie in romanticism as much as in any quality of independence. Once serendipity puts an idea in my head, the past I will live is written, prudence be damned. For example, I decided on NYU for its location alone; it was the only school I applied to even though the acceptance rate for the dramatic writing program was in the single digits. I was going to go to New York and that was that, albeit with no aspiration in particular except to live out Woody Allen’s movies ~~ Annie Hall, Manhattan, and Hannah and Her Sisters ~~ which I watched over and over again, dreaming the city into a myth in my own mind. 
Years later I would see Woody Allen on the street and those dreams would deflate forever, but that point in my evolution was still a ways away. As a teenager, my New York was all Allen’s concoctions and other odes to Gotham, like When Harry Met Sally, not to mention the work of writers throughout the 20th Century who I believed represented the City ~~ even though they’d almost all moved away early in their careers and written most of their work in Paris or elsewhere, and half a century ago on top of everything. No matter. My New York revolved around the life I would have when I finally got to the center of the world, and it would be glorious. 
In the beginning it was just as I had fantasized. I lived in a dorm on Fifth Avenue and went to school on Broadway. I was writing every day. And I smoked and drank coffee all night. 
There were eight million people around, and the anonymity soothed me. I let go and drifted about in a universe of activity that distracted me from myself. At an arts school, I was surrounded by other people like me for the first time; that is, kids who did not fit in very well during high school for whatever reason. I met trench-buddies and we bonded too quickly. 
The best part was that no one I hung out with gave a shit about what anyone else looked like or where they’d come from; what mattered was thought, and words. 
This culture of acceptance was heaven because it meant I could go days without looking in the mirror. I had grown to hate mirrors ever since adolescence, when the testosterone in my body began masculinizing me. I was a late bloomer, and even then the form of puberty that I went through was uninspired. Nevertheless, the male features I saw in my reflection made me uncomfortable in my own skin. 
One morning I walked out of the bathroom in my dorm and said, “I just looked in the mirror and my left eyelashes are white.” 
Everyone stared at me as though my head had been split. 
 “They’ve been like that for a week,” the girl from down the hall said, after a moment. “We thought you knew.” 
 “I like them,” I announced. “Just, next time, say something.” 
Soon I was working at a small downtown theater where, more often than not, the actors performed for an audience of one. Cigarettes were $2 a pack from this one smoke shop over on University Place. I wrote stories and poems and walked around downtown from dusk until dawn. I let the city mold me; I was clay. 
Nine months later, the idea of returning to my hometown in central California for the summer sent me into paroxysms. I could not afford to stay in New York on my own, 
though, so my mom suggested going down to Guatemala to live with my aunt. 
The country was in the process of recovering from civil war. My aunt and her family lived in Antigua, a colonial town in the mountains about 45 minutes west of the capital, Guatemala City. Antigua beat like a heart outward from its central square: a park hugged by colonial buildings and populated by young lovers and indigenous people dressed in the rainbow lines of Guatemalan fabrics, which they wrapped around their bodies in all directions. The streets were cobblestone, and the houses, brightly colored like the fabrics, shone against the green of the forests overwhelming the mountain peaks all around. 
Having quit smoking for the summer, I took to riding my bike every morning to rejuvenate my lungs. I explored the mountains by a network of dirt paths ~~ often turned to mud by the rains ~~ running through tiny pueblos and hidden fincas. As I passed by, finca workers would look up at me and smile: “Buenas dias!!” The air smelled of earth. 
In this manner I happened upon a road covered by a blanket of trees overhead. I dismounted my bike and pushed it up a road paved with a carpet of flower petals. The road led along the edge of a finca to a little chapel dappled with sunlight amidst the shadows of leaves. I stepped inside and sat down, thus beginning a habit of ducking into churches that I pass by happenstance to see what’s inside. 
* 
A week or so into my stay, I met Christian, a young man with long hair and striking features. He had just returned from Canada, where he had worked and saved money, and he was now studying art and architecture in Guatemala City. Christian knew what it was like to be living in a foreign land, so he invited me out with his friends every weekend.  
They adopted me into their group, and we whiled away 
hours in a coffee shop talking about nothing or partying at church ruins that had been converted into a dance club. Things just happened. One weekend we drove through the mountains to Quetzaltenango ~~ a city in a valley a mile and a half high, at the base of a volcano ~~ whose name is believed to be derived from the brilliantly plumed quetzal, Guatemala’s national bird. Another time I went over to Christian’s house and he showed me his drawings for architecture class and taught me how to shoot a gun. 
Also, I met a young gay man whom I’ll call Marcos. He took me to a gay club in Guatemala City, which was guarded, as many buildings in Guatemala were, by teenagers with rifles. We made out on the dance floor and then rode home through the mountains to Antigua the next morning in a school bus crammed with people and crates of chickens. The bus threatened to drive off the thinly paved road at every turn. 
One day my uncle took me to visit a garbage dump in Guatemala City, where he photographed people living there. The dump was a landfill in one of the ravines that slice through the capital, beautifying the cityscape and complicating travel between zonas. Inhabitants rummaged among the trash for materials to sell or recycle in a secondary economy that grew out of waste; they lived in makeshift houses bordering the mound of junk, which moved uphill as the ravine filled. Watching their work tenderized me for an experience the following year at a garbage dump in Cairo, an encounter that would open my eyes to the force of human ingenuity in the pulse that animates survival ~~ as, come to think of it, my legal cases do now. 
Mornings I attended Spanish instruction with a tutor on whom I developed a crush. I spent afternoons writing an unpublished novel about gay lovers in Nazi Germany entitled On Earth as It Is, then curled up within the hammock in the garden reading Robert Musil’s unfinished tome, The Man Without Qualities. 
“Why do you read so much?” Christian asked one day. 
“You can read when you get old, now is for living.” 
I would have the same conversation a year later with a roommate in Cairo, and, years after that, inside my own head, with characters from a novel by Jhumpa Lahiri. Now that even more years have passed, I have yet to arrive at an answer. 
The harmony of routine in Antigua was interrupted by an attack of appendicitis. 
“I can do the operation right here,” the local doctor said. 
“Uh, where exactly?” I asked, clutching my stomach and looking around the one-room office which flickered with the shadows of passersby on the sidewalk outside. 
I ended up at a hospital in Guatemala City, where a surgeon confirmed the diagnosis. 
“We’ll do a laparoscopy, so you won’t even know the difference afterward,” my surgeon said. “We have really good tortillas here.” 
He was right on both counts. One of the three tiny scars from the procedure is hidden in my pubic hair, and another in my belly button ~~ or so I recall since I cannot find them anymore. And sure enough the tortillas were delicious, delivered hot to my bed upon request, as I listened to The Cranberries’ album No Need To Argue and chipped away at On Earth as It Is. 
After being discharged, I spent a week recuperating with books in the hammock, until my uncle told me to get the hell out and see more of the country. My first trip was to Panajachel, then a sleepy little town on the shores of Lake Atitlan, a body of blue water in the sky encircled by seven volcanoes. The pension where I stayed did not have hot water for more than an hour in the mornings, which I slept through, so I compensated with an activity that I would write about years later, in 2009, as # 8 in a list of “25 Things About Me” on Facebook: 
 
1. My first word was “more” ~~ and little has changed ever since. 
2. I spent the first 17 years of my life living in the same house. 
3. I spent my last year there rolling around with my first love and painting a mural in oils on a canvas 18 feet long. 
4. I graduated high school and college in three years each. 
5. I have traveled to 40 countries, most several times, and I have lived in five of them. They are all my favorites for different reasons. 
6. I have slept on beaches in Egypt and Mexico, and in a cave in Turkey. 
7. And speaking of Turkey, after pleading with an exceedingly burly bus driver to be dropped at the side of the highway, I rode into Troy on the back of a tractor. 
8. I once bathed in a lake in Guatemala. It was warmer than the showers at my shit hotel. 
9. My favorite love affair so far is the fighter jet pilot in Tel Aviv. I was 19 and living in Cairo, and there were motorcycle rides and sunsets involved. 
10. I showed up in Tel Aviv again years later and called a number I got from information trying to find the guy in # 9. It was a different guy with the same name. He turned out to be just as cute in his own way. 
11. I saw The Iceman Cometh with Kevin Spacey on Broadway eleven times. The back story is that it was sold out, but I asked Mr. Spacey for tickets ~~ and he made arrangements. 
12. I lived in a houseboat on the Nile. Twice. 
13. The first time I lived on the houseboat, I wrote a play. In the middle of it, I happened across Kevin Spacey’s elegy for Jason Robards, whom Mr. Spacey had seen performing in The Iceman Cometh…guess what? A dozen times, of course. 
14. And speaking of Egypt, I was there when the “Cairo 52” were arrested on May 11, 2001 for being gay. I met with U.S. Embassy personnel afterward to discuss the accuracy of the international press that the incident received. 
15. Shortly thereafter, I applied to law school. I wrote about the arrest in my personal statement. 
16. I have never cried like I did when I left San Francisco after my second year of law school to go study in the Netherlands and then work for a judge in New York. 
17. I had transsexual surgery in Bangkok. 
18. Less than three weeks later, I spent New Year’s Day riding a motorcycle through the sunshine on an island off the coast of eastern Thailand. 
19. Since I began practicing law substantively (at that point, two-and-a-half years prior), I have represented individuals charged with sex abuse, white collar crimes, racketeering, international drug conspiracies, terrorism, and murder ~~ among other things. 
20. I am not aware (at the time of this writing) of any other people of transgender experience who do what I do. I often walk into court and think: wow, we are living history these days. 
21. I am one of the few lawyers who love their work. 
22. I am very, very proud of # 21. 
23. I was a competitive gymnast for many years. I still walk on my hands from time to time. 
24. I put 1,000 miles on my first road bike in less than three months. I hit the 1,000th mile at the top of the Williamsburg Bridge. The air was filled with mist. 
25. I have almost died several times. I am glad I am still here.  
 
But of course I am way ahead of myself. So, let me go back for a moment to that summer in Guatemala, as I was learning to travel solo. 
The jaunt to Panajachel had emboldened me. For another trip, I flew further afield to the ruins of Tikal, an ancient Mayan city where I climbed to the top of a temple before dawn among the calls of monkeys and noises of the rainforest. I had not slept the night before because it was so hot and I was too excited 
by the prospect of seeing the sunrise. Alas, it was cloudy, and I did not even realize the sun had risen until after it happened. 
I was 18 years old and out there alone in the world. From that point in life up to my gender transition seven years later, it would not occur to me that there were any limits beyond the clouds. 
* 
My second year in college, I lived in my first apartment in New York, around the corner from Life Café, a restaurant where the tabletops were collaged with pages from decades-old issues of Life magazine.  Now closed, along with the last vestiges of The East Village That Was, Life Café was immortalized in Jonathan Larsen’s rock musical Rent, a surprise smash hit that made it to Broadway and opened on the same night that Mr. Larsen died of AIDS. 
Life Café is where I went upon discharge from Bellevue Hospital after a suicide attempt later that year. Seated at a table by the floor-to-ceiling windows, facing the streets I missed so much while locked in the hospital, I would order my usual juevos rancheros and home-fries. I treated myself to few luxuries in those days, and my favorite brunch at Life Café ~~ either $5.99 or $6.99, if I remember ~~ was one of them. I’d dreamt of that meal the whole week I was hospitalized, but the bland fare at Bellevue had dulled my taste buds, so my food would seem flavorless as I chewed, staring out the glass. 
It was 1996 and the neighborhood had yet to gentrify as it has since. There were vacant lots throughout the area, and some of the apartments still had a bathtub in the kitchen. My building’s hallways reeked of cat urine. This phenomenon was due to the veritable cat hotel maintained by one of the tenants, a schizophrenic woman who raced down the stairway every couple weeks wishing everyone a Merry Christmas. 
The first week in my new apartment, a man was shot on 
the doorstep six floors below my bedroom/living room window. I had always thought the experience of everything moving in slow motion during an emergency was a dramatic flourish ~~ until I tried to make my way from the window to the phone to call the ambulance. 
Aside from experimenting with drugs as a teenager and having sex where I wasn’t supposed to, I had been pickpocketed in the backroom of a gay bar on 10th Street ~~ a couple doors down from Life Café ~~ the previous year, during my first month in college. Those brushes were the extent of my exposure to crime at that point. 
Now, the first, and still the only, time that I have ever seen someone shot, I watched the ambulance arrive and the paramedics respond to the victim on the sidewalk below. They took out fabric scissors and cut his pants off; the tatters fell into the blood pooled around him. He cupped his hands over his groin to hide his nakedness. The paramedics lifted him onto a stretcher and into the ambulance, and drove away. 
Silence. The blood was visible for weeks, even after it rained. 
The human instinct to preserve one’s dignity is a force indeed. I saw it in that shooting victim’s modesty years ago, and these days I see it in my clients while they fight for their lives. Part of my job as a lawyer is to help them hold their chin up in the face of a devastating case against them. Do I do what I do in court to prove that I can act on my feet in a crisis, as if redoing my reaction to that shooting, until I improve? 
* 
That year was perhaps the loneliest I have known. Chatrooms on the Internet, ruled by America Online (AOL), which charged for dial-up service by the minute, had become popular. As soon as I discovered cybersex, I began flushing away time and money that I didn’t have into the sewer of sex addiction. 
My compulsion for anonymous sex had previously been limited to interactions with strangers in acting out places; the stream of fantasies available online were without limit. 
It was during this period that Arabic became a palliative I would turn to time and again. Studying the language was, and remains, one of the few activities ~~ other than painting ~~ that tempts my mind away from sadness and lulls anxiety. 
My lifeline to human connection was an internship at The New Group, an Off-Broadway theater company on 42nd Street run by founding Artistic Director Scott Elliott. We were not supposed to participate in internships until our junior year, but I managed to slip through as a sophomore by, basically, just doing it anyway. I rolled off the street into The New Group’s offices as an 18-year-old kid right as their first hit ~~ the U.S. premiere of the British filmmaker Mike Leigh’s play Ecstasy ~~ was putting them on the map of New York theater. I shared a desk with the executive producer; it was a plank of wood laid across two file cabinets in a windowless room which also housed Scott and whomever else showed up. 
As the months flashed by, I began to work as a box office manager at the theater in the evenings. For extra money, most of which I spent on cigarettes (still available for $2 a pack but not for much longer) and books at The Strand, I also babysat the executive producer’s children. 
The year passed, and I left New York for Illinois, where I attended an intensive summer program for Arabic at the University of Chicago. The dorms at the International House where I lived had no air conditioning, so I wrote out grammar drills lying on the floor of the common area on the mildly less stifling first floor, and I slept in the “study” rooms in the basement, which were cool. In the middle of the program my mouth exploded in pain without warning, and I had to have my wisdom teeth extracted. If studying Arabic relaxed me before, 
now I was conjugating verbs on Vicodin. 
Years later I would return to Chicago to participate in Chicago Ideas Week, a series of talks, labs, summits and events involving speakers and presentations on a variety of topics; and a few days after my talk I would receive an e-mail from a woman in the audience that made me feel my life until then had been worth it. 
But, back then, I was just trying to experience everything I could without any plan in mind. Before heading to Egypt to study abroad and continue pursuing Arabic, I made a detour to Guatemala for a couple weeks. Shortly after I arrived, Christian appeared in my bedroom ~~ apparently my aunt’s maid had recognized him from the summer before and let him in. He threw his arms around me and gripped me in the tightest hug I had known since my brother hugged me when I left for college two years prior. 
My uncle did not want me to stay with the family again, so I asked around for suggestions. Marco, my gay clubbing partner, hooked me up with a room at his brother’s house, though I tried to be there as seldom as possible to avoid the sounds of domestic abuse that crashed through the walls as if they were made of paper. 
* 
Egypt. 
I remember no period of my life to date as vividly as the semester I spent studying abroad at AUC. Even now, whenever I pass by a hookah bar in New York or Los Angeles and inhale the smoke from sheesha tobacco ~~ those distinctively flavored leaves that, to me, smell like dew-covered flowers formed of bark ~~ I am right back on the streets of Wasat al-Balad, downtown Cairo. 
I close my eyes and see what feels like every minute of those four months in Egypt. If my uncle’s kick in the ass in Guatemala had started me on a journey to see the world as a solo 
traveler, those initial months in Um ad-Doonya, the Mother of the World, opened me up to the exaltation of independence while exploring the earth, the depths of isolation in being far, far away from home, and everything in between, with the understanding that home would henceforth be everywhere and anywhere, and nowhere at once: memory. 
The idea of living in an AUC dorm seemed an anathema to the reasons why I had gone abroad in the first place. So I ended up in a flat downtown with a young American named Bruce, a gangly fellow who had bright blue eyes and wavy brown hair, and no real reason for being in Cairo so far as I could tell. 
We lived in Wasat al-Balad, the center of the city, not far from Maydan Talaat Harb, a square which remains home to Café Groppi, a chocolatier’s shop where the ghosts of Old Cairo Hands inhabit the walls, and the Yacoubian Building, a yellowish-cream-colored Art Deco creation with green shutters that has sunk from magnificence in the Golden Era of 1930s and 1940s Cairo into Egyptian history. 
Our flat, with its tall ceilings which were home to hordes of mosquitos that devoured us nightly, managed to be rambling, though small, most likely due to the lifetimes of stories concealed beneath a veneer of charm. The shopkeeper at a kiosk downstairs watched over us. We would alert him whenever we needed more propane for the stove, after which another tank would appear in the netherworld of dust that comprised the airshaft in the center of the building. There was also a tiny, centuries-old man known as a “bawab,” which I guess would translate to “doorman,” albeit clumsily, since the Arabic word more properly refers to the gentlemen around Egypt who keep an eye on things, greet people, and manage the unfathomable car parking situation in Cairo. 
“Alhamdullillah,” our ancient bawab squealed every time he saw us, rolling around on his bony butt atop a small bench in the dark lobby where the very, very old elevator took building 
inhabitants up and down in voyages of faith.  
Hovering in the shadows of the building’s interior, our bawab seemed less like a man than a jinn, the term in Islamic theology that refers to creatures made from smokeless fire, who inhabit the world around us. Jinn are sometimes good and sometimes bad; they flit about becoming involved in the affairs of others, stirring up trouble or helping out, and just basically confounding human beings. 
“Alhamdulillah,” squealed our bawab, beaming with a near-toothless grin. 
* 
My weekend first trip was to Siwa, a desert oasis near the border with Libya. To get to Siwa, I had to take a micro-bus from Cairo to Alexandria, a city storied in my mind by Alexander Durrell’s series of novels The Alexandria Quartet, which had whisked me back in the 20th Century night after night as I smoked Egyptian cigarettes and nibbled chocolate cake from Groppi’s; and then along the Mediterranean Sea to Marsa Matruh, a coastal town 150 miles west of Alexandria, where the German Commander Erwin Rommel had led a weak force to defeat the Allied defensive line during World War II; and finally down another stretch of road for six hours through the desert. 
Home to about 25,000 people, Siwa is around 600 square miles in size. Its main town is famed for an old neighborhood of mud houses that have lasted through the decades, and perhaps centuries, since rain is so rare. I could not wait to explore it. I would miss the experience until I came back years later, however, due to what happened next. 
As was my wont, I arrived and immediately decided to get on a bicycle and go as far in any random direction as I could. I rode along a dirt path through vegetation that appeared to sprout from the terrestrial plane of another planet. The dusty leaves of palm trees eventually gave way to the Temple of Amun, where 
Alexander the Great had ventured centuries ago, legend goes, to consult the oracle of the deity of the same name. There I wandered through a bit of antiquity that had survived in lore far from the march of time. 
The next thing I knew I was on a road that stretched across a giant salt lake toward a horizon searing in the distance. And then I was at a spring encircled with stone, jumping into the water with a bunch of Siwan boys who were fending off the heat of late afternoon with a swim. 
At sunset I decided to climb a mountain nearby. It was near the top that I knew the end was nigh: all of a sudden I was stricken with nausea, and, within minutes, I was expelling body fluids from multiple orifices, and sweating. This episode of food poisoning was a composite of all my fears come true, and the fire of it ravaged me for several minutes straight. I sat down and squinted through the dwindling light at my bicycle down below. 
Good Lord, I thought, I’ve made it this far and now I’m going to perish in the sand. 
It would be years before I’d make it back to Siwa ~~ travelers always return, I read somewhere once ~~ to wander through the old city and swim in a pond in the middle of dunes outside the oasis proper. That first visit with the food poisoning was a test of will; unable to keep anything down as my fever raged in the middle of the desert, I stuffed myself with suppositories of acetaminophen, stumbled onto a series of micro-buses in the opposite direction from which I had come, and somehow made it back to Cairo alive. 
Weekends that followed, I tossed myself around Cairo by catching a variety of buses around the city. Those buses never really stop. People just jump on and off when the vehicles are stuck among traffic, or as the driver is pretending to slow down for a turn. The first time I tried to dismount one I landed flat on my face, until I watched other people do it and realized that I 
needed to compensate for the momentum of the moving bus by leaning backward so that the force of being thrown forward would result in an upright position. 
These excursions led to the City of the Dead, a cemetery where people transform the mausoleums of wealthy families into homes; the ages-old hilltop Citadel; Masjid al-Rafa’i, a mosque where the Iranian Shah Reza Pahlavi is buried, a fact that would reveal its significance to me years later; the Pyramids, of course; the bustling, winding old souq called Khan al-Khalili that comprises the living museum of Islamic Cairo, where I scrutinized buildings that I learned about in an Islamic Art and Architecture class at AUC; and wherever else I ended up when I got on a bus without a destination in mind, and rode. 
Sometimes I stowed a guidebook in my backpack, a holdover from Guatemala that was falling apart but somehow still zipped closed. But I did not have a guidebook most of the time ~~ for example, when I met dashing young Hamdi or the burly boat drivers (plural) or any of the other Egyptian boyfriends who came home with me, scandalizing Bruce; or the afternoon when I walked down the street gnawing on a skewered chicken, looked down into a trunk full of antiques for sale, and saw a dusty old gas mask that, in my memory, matches what came up just now when I Googled “gas mask World War II.” 
Or the day I happened upon a garbage dump in Helwan, a city in the southern part of Greater Cairo, where a young man greeted me with a grin and welcomed me inside his home ~~ a single domed room carved into a mound of trash. From underneath a dining table in the center, as I stood there beneath a ceiling just high enough to accommodate standing, he withdrew a handful of gunk that he plopped on the table. He flitted his fingers about in space and seconds later there was a menagerie of tiny clay animals that he had fashioned on whim. Laughing, he splatted this miniature zoo with his palm, then re-formed it into the product 
that formed a portion of his livelihood: the clay bowls that held coals for hookah pipes around the country. 
When I wasn’t exploring, I spent nights at home reading the Egyptian Nobel Laureate Naguib Mahfouz. His descriptions of Islamic Cairo in the early to mid-20th Century decorated my imagination in arabesques. Mahfouz’s work mirrored the reality that hypnotized me whenever I circled back to the district during the day. I also read, for some reason, Henry James. 
Bruce kept on trying to convince me to accompany him to the fancy hotel bars where he and an Iranian friend who loved Madonna would hang out. 
“Schopenhauer will be here when you get back,” he said. 
“I’m not reading Schopenhauer, I’m reading The Portrait of a Lady.” 
“That’ll be here too.” 
Bruce, the Iranian, and I had a lot of conversations seated within the belly of our apartment, especially as the days progressed toward winter and night came sooner. The Iranian would do this thing where he’d strike a match and then hold it in front of his cigarette as he talked, right up until the flame came within a millimeter of his finger. The Iranian’s obsession with Madonna was such that he would find an opportunity to mention her every time we spoke. For his part, Bruce wanted to “slip through the cracks” and disappear unnoticed, and to my knowledge that is what he did. 
But he left me a memento of conversation: during one of our heart-to-hearts he told me that I was a “searcher.” He said I searched harder than anyone he’d ever known. 
* 
I took the overnight train to Upper Egypt, which is in the southern portion of the country but is deemed “upper” because the Nile flows north. In Luxor ~~ Ibtasim, anta fil Uqsar, a sign outside the city said, Smile, you’re in Luxor ~~ I rented a 
bicycle, took the ferry across the river to the west bank, and rode and rode, with every intention of reaching the Valley of the Kings. Instead, I ended up in a village on the other side of the mountains that the renowned tombs are carved into. The desert beckoned me, so I locked my bike to a light pole beside a tiny mosque ~~ a room about four feet by five feet, complete with a mihrab, a curve in the wall that indicated the direction of Mecca for prayer ~~ and I headed into the hills. 
No matter how many peaks I climbed, each time believing I’d reach the top, there was another. Eventually I sat down, put Peter Gabriel’s Passion on my discman, and began to cry. I cried, I think, for the same reason that I most often do: the beauty of the world overtook me by surprise. There wasn’t a sound. 
The silence increased in waves ~~ until I heard footsteps in the sand approaching behind me. A shadow cast itself to my side, and I looked up. There was an old man wearing a long white galibiya that shone pristine next to my dusty clothes. I removed my headphones but he held up his hand and said, in English, “Take your time.” 
Shudders ran down my spine as I recalled Bruce’s voice: searcher. It would take years for me to slow down and appreciate life; I’m still learning. 
My reverie was broken as the man unfolded his dark brown wrinkled hands, revealing several little trinkets. I wanted to believe he was a jinn sent to provide a catalyst for personal growth, but he had just materialized to sell me faux artifacts. 
I knew all along it was just a matter of time before my gastro-intestinal system got the better of me again. Sure enough, I was struck by an attack of diarrhea after the mysterious old man disappeared. Mercifully, the experience in Siwa had taught me to carry toilet paper just in case. In most instances, I must learn by repetitions of trial and error; that lesson only took once. 
When I got back to the miniature mosque, I realized that the key to my bike lock must have fallen out of my shorts pocket when I was squatting down in the sand. The ferry back to the other side of the river ~~ and my hotel ~~ was miles and miles away, and night had begun to fall. 
I tried jiggling the lock and shimmying the bike up the light post. The noise I made shaking everything around apparently reached the village; within moments women and children were peering out their windows and turning out on their roofs to watch. There was a sentry post atop a nearby hill, and, the next thing I knew, a soldier was running down toward me in a cloud of dust, screaming, “Liss!! Liss!!” ~~ Arabic for thief. 
A little boy appeared at my waist and looked at me with his big brown eyes. I glanced back up the hill at the approaching sentry. I searched through my Guatemalan backpack, this time for the keys to my flat in Cairo. The elevator key was just small enough; I shoved it into the bicycle lock and turned. Wouldn’t you know it, the fucking thing opened. 
“Alhamdullilah,” I said. 
“Alhamdullilah,” the boy replied with a smile, his big brown eyes glistening in the setting sun. 
* 
A few weeks later, I went to the Sinai with an Egyptian girl with wild curly hair out to here, whom I’ll call Hanaa, and her friend, a Palestinian chick who had a habit of underpaying cab drivers. 
We took an overnight bus on the spur of the moment. I woke up the following morning and gazed out the window at a landscape that looked, in the blue dawn, like another planet ~~ as I listened to The Cranberries’ song “Put Me Down,” which has ever since then been the Sinai Song for me. We went to a place called “Basata,” which means simplicity, where we slept on the beach and watched the sun rise over Saudi Arabia. In the 
afternoons I went scuba diving with a gorgeous Israeli guy named Ronan. 
A few more weeks passed and I found myself in Tel Aviv. The bus station, glistening and brimming with Western amenities and so different from the pit stops to which I’d grown accustomed in Egypt, disoriented me. That night I went to a gay club, where another gorgeous Israeli guy came onto the scene. This one, whom I’ll call G__ D__, approached me and came very close. 
“Where are you staying?” G__ D__ asked. 
I told him the name of the hostel where I had a bed for around $10 a night. 
“Not tonight,” he said, and took me home. 
Mirrors hung above his bed from all sorts of angles. “Practical art,” he called it. 
I mostly closed my eyes to avoid my own reflection. When I did open them, it seemed to me as though it were not I up there on the ceiling but someone else. 
G__ D__ called me the following week, after I had been back in Cairo for several days. He just wanted to hear my voice, he said. I sat there staring at the phone after we hung up, trying to figure out how I was going to get ahold of him again since the knuckle-biting landlord had discontinued the international and long distance service. Fuck it, I thought, and five minutes later I was gone, with the trusty Guatemalan backpack in my hand. 
I dashed out of the front door downstairs to look for a cab and ran into Bruce, who was coming home. 
“Where are you going?!” he called out as I rushed by. 
“Tel Aviv!! See you in a few days.” 
“Alhamoolillah,” squealed our bawab from wherever he was. 
I caught the last bus for the night as it was leaving the station. The following day in Israel, G__ D__ wasn’t home when 
I arrived; I waited for him and fell asleep on his doorstep. That evening I was on the back of his motorcycle as we headed toward the old city of Jaffa for food. The sun was setting in pastels over the Mediterranean, lovely and dreamlike. I was content to be out in the world with my arms around a fighter jet pilot who was pursuing an advanced degree in an intellectual field ~~ a fantasy of a reality that was to me very sexy. 
For some reason there were no buses down to Elat, the border crossing into Egypt, on the day that I left. So instead I took a taxi. Upon discovering that I had yet to see the Negev desert, the driver took me on a route running through it. We turned a corner in the mountains and a valley as splendorous as anything I’ve ever seen opened up before us. It was another world, and God was there. 
Oh, this is what people are fighting for here. Now I see. 
Four months in Cairo. They were over in a day. 
I did not know it then, but my life in Egypt was only to begin. Before I left, I happened to see a dusty old sign advertising English language courses, dangling above a door to the old AUC library building downtown. That sign flung itself into my memory, a boomerang of fate. It would return, as would I, three years later. 
* 
When I got back to New York, I went in to see my guidance counselor at NYU. He looked at my transcript and said, “My Lord, how are we going to get you to graduate by the end of the year?” 
“Graduate?” I asked. 
It was going to require some creative interpretation to get me out on time, he explained. My trip to Egypt, he said, did not provide many transferable credits toward my major. 
At which point I realized that he thought I was a senior. What the hell, if I play this right I’ll get out of here in three years and I’ll be free in New York. 
“What do you propose?” I asked. 
He did some magic, and thus I graduated college in three years ~~ just as I had finished high school in three years, too ~~ even though I might have stayed to double major in Near Eastern Studies and then gone on to live a different life. 
By the time NYU graduation rolled around, I had dyed my hair purple and moved to Park Slope in Brooklyn. My roommates and I shared a Palatial Apartment right on Prospect Park before the neighborhood became more expensive than parts of Manhattan. I fell in love with it because I usually fall in love with wherever I live. I got my first stomach cramp within memory while running in the park, which made me realize that the years had passed and I’d been smoking cigarettes longer than I ever planned. 
One of my roommates ~~ my best friend Brit Till ~~ and I made a short film set in the Palatial Apartment. It was about a young woman who pawns a family heirloom to get back home to Palestine. The film was meant as a prelude to a feature film that never got made, though my script received praise from a reader at Good Machine, the film production company owned by independent producers James Schamus and Ted Hope where I worked as an intern in the one-person development department during the afternoons. No one there seemed to mind that I had purple hair. 
I made a living by working in the theater in the mornings and evenings. It came about this way. I was sitting in the Palatial Apartment wondering what I was going to do with myself now that I’d unexpectedly graduated college, when the phone rang. It was the executive producer of The New Group. 
“What does your life look like these days?” 
“Why do you ask?” I said. 
Thus I had a paying job and made my living in the theater as a 20-year-old just out of college. The key to survival 
under the circumstances was carbohydrates: on University Place, near the hole-in-the-wall with the cheap cigarettes (which were now $2.50), there was a deli that sold breakfast in the form of an egg-on-a-roll for a dollar; and for dinner I consumed a box of Annie’s macaroni and cheese, which I bought for 99 cents a pop from another deli on University. The macaroni boiled in the theater kitchen while I handled ticket sales, and then I mixed in the packet of dehydrated cheese and savored the result during the first act. 
Time went on. Scott made a movie with one of Steven Spielberg’s producers while The New Group kept putting up plays. Over the next two years I was promoted to assistant producer, and then associate producer. We threw gala benefits and I met movie stars and famous people. I memorized the film box office stats in Variety every week, and I could recite The New Group’s production history, and its roster of artists and designers, along with most of their bios, by heart. 
Sooner or later we received notice that the Palatial Apartment in Park Slope was being converted to a condo. My roommates and I moved out because we were appalled by the first-option purchase price of $160,000, although the place would, at the time of this writing, probably be worth ten times that amount. Oh well ~~ I would rather have the experience of what happened next: we headed down the Slope to the border of Red Hook, where we lived in a semi-converted storefront that was previously a Latin pornography shop (we found condoms in the rafters in the basement), and, years before that, a restaurant frequented by Al Capone. Or so the legend went. 
The first time it rained, the water rushing down the Slope backed up the drainage system and the basement flooded raw sewage. One of us went down to the docks on the East River and somehow managed to come back with a few wooden pallets, on which we stored our belongings so they would float in the next 
flood. We renegotiated with the landlord. In the end, three of us paid $225 each for about 2500 square feet not all that far from downtown Brooklyn. We called it “The Unique Space.” 
I slept atop the roof of the enclosed bathroom, about four feet below the old-fashioned tin plate ceiling. I built a loft that extended about ten feet out over the stairs leading down to the basement and featured a staircase with a landing beneath which we stored a commercial-sized copying machine that we inherited from a New Group donor. 
The copying machine sat on the sidewalk on Broadway, just north of Union Square, at the bottom of a seemingly vertical ramp into the back of the van that we’d rented for like $30. 
“There’s no way we’re getting that thing up the ramp,” one of my roommates said. 
“It can’t weigh more than 400 pounds,” I said, and pushed. To this day I have no idea how we managed to get that thing from an office in Manhattan to our Unique Space in No Man’s Land in between Park Slope and Red Hook in Brooklyn. But then, I have no idea how we did most things we managed to do back then. And, if I did know, they probably would not have been so worth doing in the first place. 
That summer I opened an E-Trade account and started trading stocks. The tech bubble was still expanding, and without knowing anything about the market I made money buying AOL one day and selling it the next, just like everyone else. A couple months later, with $3,500 in the bank, I told The New Group that I was going to be gone for six weeks. I bought a travel backpack and a plane ticket to Athens. 
* 
I fell in love with Greece in a heartbeat. Several years prior, when I was preparing for an interview for a Scholar’s program in college, my father told me to read a book called Philosophies of Art and Beauty: Selected Readings in Aesthetics from Plato 
to Heidegger. Despite my state of rebellion at the time, I had devoured the 700-page reader in a week. Now, as I walked around Athens among the ruins and history of my heritage as a human being, I found myself breathing the first few chapters of that book. 
By the end of the week I was on a series of ferries island-hopping around the Aegean ~~ to tranquil Paros, infamous Mykonos with its clubs and gay beaches, and breathtaking Santorini, an island hollowed into cliffs by the collapse of earth following a volcanic eruption. Then it was down to storied Crete where I hiked the ten-mile Samaria Gorge in sandals, which caused plum-sized blood blisters on the bottom of each foot, and visited Knossos, a palace from the Minoan period. 
Then it was over to Rhodes, an island situated off the coast of Turkey and at the crossroads of a history involving the Greeks, Persians, Egyptians, Romans, Arabs, and Byzantium and the Ottoman Empire. There, I awoke at dawn one morning and wandered through the medieval city of Rhodes as the sun rose and cast orange light upon the panoply of architecture ranging from the Gothic Palace of the Grand Master of the Knights to the rose-colored Suleiman Mosque. 
Later that afternoon I rented a Vespa and drove to the Valley of the Butterflies. How could I have guessed that I would return to that spot in a few years with my brother? 
From Rhodes I took a boat to Bodrum, a port city in Turkey. Before heading up the coast to Istanbul, I went east toward fabled Antalya in the Turkish Riviera, but never made it because I stopped in the fishing town Kas for an afternoon and ended up staying for several days. A Turkish family vacationing from Istanbul let me a room for almost nothing; one morning the father told me that he too had traveled the world alone until it was time to grow roots, which he described by lowering his hands, palm down. In the afternoons I went fishing from a shoreline 
walkway with a young man who had accompanied the family on their trip, or had somehow shown up along the way, and we spent an afternoon wondering why everyone else along the small bay was catching fish and we weren’t, until we realized that the strange smell we’d been talking about for hours was wafting up from what turned out to be a town sewer line outlet beneath our feet. 
Time came to head up to Istanbul, but not before a detour to Troy. There was no public transportation to the reputed site of the ancient city, so the bus driver offered to drop me on the side of a road in the middle of nowhere, leaving me to make it the rest of the way to the ramparts where Helen stood ~~ the remains of which would turn out to seem, even accounting for time, less imposing that I’d imagined fitting for a woman whose face had launched a thousand ships. Anyway, although that journey to Troy was memorable enough to write about in my list of “25 Things About Me” on Facebook, I’ve forgotten how I completed the next leg of the journey to Istanbul. 
Oh, to go back and see Istanbul for the first time, with eyes still thirsty enough to drink in the world to the lees! Words only diminish the splendor of the crossroads of civilization and the majesty of a cityscape incorporating the Byzantine masterpiece Hagia Sophia church/mosque/museum, the spires of the Blue Mosque, and the promontory majesty of Topkapi Palace, all at the intersection of Europe and Asia where earth and water meet sky and form the Bosphorus Strait. 
All of it seemed to be enfolded in the arms of a nice young Turk whom I met in the fashionable Taksim district and spent some time with practicing pillow talk. What grandeur there is extending out from so many nuclei of lore in Istanbul. 
Soon enough I was off to Cappadocia in central Turkey, where human dwellings are carved inside “fairy chimneys,” tall formations of soft rock that pierce the air like spires. I slept inside one; it was cold and damp. 
The following morning I went to a local emergency room where I requested an IV to avoid dehydration from all the liquids I was losing due to a bad stomach. 
“There is nothing wrong with you.” 
“Just give me the IV, please.” 
And then it was on to Syria. The European charm of Aleppo ~~ before the tragedy of civil war would damage the city ~~ swept me off my feet. A hotel proprietor in the religiously diverse town of Homs told me and a Japanese traveling companion who appeared out of thin air that it was too late in the day to visit the hilltop Crusader castle Krak des Chevaliers, only to say I was “clever” when my companion and I returned later that night having not only made it to the castle, but also having watched a Syrian movie being filmed there, with actors strutting around in medieval battle regalia. And Old Damascus sparked my fantasies of an ancient city that gave the impression it was a garden of gold. 
Then my Japanese friend and I boarded a bus going east into the desert. Midway between Damascus and Deir Ezzour all the way over on the Euphrates, where I would return for my first job in the Middle East a couple years later, we explored the ancient city of Palmyra. The site boasts a past in which Queen Xenobia led her then luminous desert empire in a revolt against Rome. The Japanese took a photo of me atop the ruins of a building complex on a hill, where a Syrian guy and a European man who had arrived in a black BMW 7-series were making out, as the sun set behind them in the desert. 
Lebanon!! The border crossing from Syria was overrun, oddly, by hordes of Saudi men with formidable bellies. They made their way to the front of the crowd as if no one else was there. They just kept coming and coming, with no end in sight, leaving no choice but to dive into the sea of bodies toward Lebanese territory. 
In Beirut, I ended up in a hostel dorm room with a Norwegian, a Swede, and an Italian ~~ none of whom had a very convincing explanation for being in Lebanon. I did not make it back to the room before 3:00 a.m. for an entire week, by the end of which our quarters had devolved into an experiment in the boundaries of human living conditions. Things were such that one night the Italian stumbled in, said hello, and projectile vomited across the room and onto the wall. The manager shook his head at us every time we came and went, having seen it all before. 
My favorite day trip was to the Beqaa Valley in the mountains of east Lebanon, the road to which was scattered with villages bearing the scars of civil war in bullet holes on building walls. I visited the Temple of Jupiter at Baalbek, home to the Baalbek International Festival of music, and imagined the voice of the singer Fairuz stirring Lebanese hearts in every direction for miles. 
Back to Damascus, and then down to Amman. The Jordanian capital bewitched me with its sophistication. For the past three years, I had kindled dreams of doing a loop of the desert castles in Jordan, which I had studied in the Islamic Art and Architecture class I took at AUC. But an experience in Petra ~~ the city carved into mountains where Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade was filmed ~~ derailed me. 
After overcoming a bout of stomach cramps that reduced me to the fetal position on the ground, I walked through the rose-colored stone rising to Heaven. My eyes misted at the impulse of humanity to create against the odds of natural law and time. On one of the mountaintops which had no ropes or fencing for safety, I walked right up to an edge overlooking the network of vast crevices comprising the city below. Nothing kept me from falling over into the basin at my feet except the wind, and I sensed that, if it stopped blowing, I would tumble forward to my end. 
I had not felt that way since the suicide attempt back in 
New York. So I knew I should head back to the Unique Space, where at least I would be with my roommates, who were my best friends, and mainstay, at the time. I hurried over to Israel and out of Tel Aviv. I was in such a rush to leave that I did not try to look up G__ D__; I’ll be back, I thought, I’ll come back and look for him soon. 
As I went through Customs in the United States, the officer who checked my passport looked up, smiled and said, “Welcome home.” 
“Thank you,” I said. “Can you stamp my passport?” 
“We don’t usually do that on entry.” 
“I know but I’d like to remember this one.” 
That passport is long gone, along with the stamp. Yet I still recalled that “Welcome home” years later at Customs in Dallas, after returning from a trip to Mexico which imploded with passion. 
* 
One of my then roommates, Lila Yomtoob, wrote and directed an improvisational feature film, High Life, which we shot over the course of a single weekend in The Unique Space. We financed the production with funds raised from a Halloween party we threw in the Bushwick warehouse where one of the actors was living. Over 500 people attended the party. Lila and I danced on the table as we hit Break Even on expenses and the contributions kept coming in. 
Years later, I would stay with Lila in an apartment in Bushwick while working as an intern at the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office. Still later, I would be attacked and sexually assaulted in an apartment nearby by a man whom the same DA’s Office would prosecute for the offense. “Give me what I want or I’ll kill you,” he would say, holding me in a headlock. To this day I feel sick when I am in Bushwick. 
High Life was art directed by my friend Brit, whom, come 
to think of it, I may only have met because of Philosophies of Art and Beauty. Brit and I had bonded a couple years before on a university Scholars group trip to Europe. I’d interviewed for the Scholars program after eating some questionable pizza which erupted out of me in the bathroom minutes before the interview was scheduled to begin. I was not about to lose this opportunity to participate in lectures, sponsored trips to Europe and a financial scholarship toward tuition, however; so I washed the tears out of my face, went into the assistant dean’s office, wove a series of Western philosophers into the discussion for an hour, and scored a perfect ten. 
My views on that score have matured over the years. At first I thought nothing of it. But as I received other compliments in the coming years, I succumbed to the ease of letting the memory feed my ego. Years later, as I was struggling to overcome failing grades during my first year in law school, my score on that interview haunted me as a symbol that I had strayed onto the wrong path. Indeed, I convinced myself it meant I should retreat from the rigor of the law to the safety of art, where at least I had learned to use expression as a license to dance around my own shortcomings as a thinker. 
Now, at this point in life, I see the score as an indicator of how preparation can help. “Chance favors the prepared mind,” as my dad reminds me every chance he gets. 
On my first Scholars trip to Europe, Brit and I went to a little supermarket in Rome and saw a young man packing groceries who looked like a jinn, and got lost together in Venice. On my own, I went through a crush on a guy who did not reciprocate, while I failed, on the other hand, to reciprocate a crush that someone else had on me. This mismatch conformed to the phenomenon of ships-passing-in-the-night that had defined my emotional life as a teenager ~~ which formed a pattern of lost affection that would continue to command me as an adult, until 
after I gender transitioned and finally romance could fall into place just long enough to materialize. All I have ever wanted was to live from the heart. 
Anyway, for the art direction of High Life, Brit painted a large bar code on the wall and draped a flamboyant feather boa across the room divider in front of the loft I had built, which we painted lime green for the set. Day two of our shoot, one of our cinematographers showed up late, wearing the clothes he’d gone out in the night before, and still a little drunk. Later that afternoon, I discovered that the supposedly fake joints that some of the actors brought to smoke were actually real. And, during a scene in which two of the characters ended up painting each other’s bodies and making out in the bathroom, the shower flooded out into the kitchen. 
Variety called the film “a razor-sharp miniature, capturing the precise moment when prolonged adolescence surrenders to sober adulthood.” 
* 
I was working seven days a week at The New Group and other theaters, and I spent much of the time I had left feeding either my appetite for culture or my sex addiction. In between, I read books that I thought would help my understanding of storytelling like Joseph Campbell’s The Hero With a Thousand Faces, which had influenced George Lucas in the creation of Star Wars, and James Frazer’s encyclopedia of anthropological inquiry The Golden Bough: A Study in Comparative Religion, which had influenced Joseph Campbell. I read in the mornings, on the crowded subway in from Brooklyn, and sitting on the carpeted stairway at the old church that The New Group used as a theater in those days ~~ in other words, whenever I could not actively engage in sexual compulsion. 
At night I cruised the shadows of the city for sex until all hours or tumbled into cybersex in chatrooms online. Seeing the 
regulars irritated me because my addiction always wanted something new; I did not stop to think that I was one of the regulars I loathed. Over time, a few of these familiar screen names would turn into real-life friends with whom I’d go dancing at the gay bar Splash in Chelsea on the weekends. My closest friend of the group, a filmmaker from South Asia, would later die of AIDS, after we had lost touch and before I got to say goodbye. 
My respite came at the theater before shows, where, for a few minutes every evening, I tiptoed through the empty house among the ghosts of performances past. I would remember those lapses into tranquility before my talk at Chicago Ideas Week, when I stood on a stage for tech rehearsal before many bright lights rigged above rows and rows of empty seats that would fill up with people the following day. 
* 
One frigid winter night I came home to the Unique Space and was told that someone had busted in the front door ~~ which never locked properly to begin with ~~ and stood there for a moment before turning around and leaving. We locked ourselves inside the outer metal gate, which was a fire hazard, not that it would have matter much anyway, since the gate was nearly rusted through and hung on hinges that might have fallen right out of the doorframe at the slightest touch. 
Around the same time I fell for someone I’ll call Robert, a skinny Guyanese guy with the most captivating eyes I have ever seen. We had started chatting online and then arranged to meet one night in Times Square. A couple weeks later I wrote him a love letter that he has saved all these years, in which I described the sensation of looking into those eyes of his for the very first time. We made out underneath an umbrella on West 46th Street in a snowstorm; and once he took me to the computer room where he worked and, as he squatted down to examine a series of circuit boards, it occurred to me that he had such a nice back of the neck, 
a moment that reminded me of my first love in New York years before. 
To supplement the egg rolls and Annie’s macaroni and cheese, my diet included cappuccino, cigarettes, and Ben & Jerry’s chocolate chip cookie dough ice cream. I smoked a lot of pot and slept with whomever I could find. 
And I was empty inside. 
When I could no longer concentrate on books, my soul sought refuge that late spring of 1999 in the theater that I managed to see for free through various connections, comp offers, and flat out begging. One challenge was to a ticket to Kevin Spacey’s sold-out revival of Eugene O’Neill’s The Iceman Cometh ~~ which I finally finagled, in the form of a front row seat from where I could see the actors’ sweat. 
Mid-way through the first act of the four-hour-plus production featuring more main characters than I could keep track of, I realized that there was no way I would understand even a sliver of the play in one sitting. I plodded away into Times Square, distraught. Yet, before descending the stairs into the subway, I chanced to look up at the lights, billboards and marquees for a moment ~~ and I thought, Why the hell not? 
I raced back to the theater and dashed off a note to Kevin Spacey. I elbowed my way through the crowd at the stage door and put the note in his hand as he was signing autographs. 
Three days later, there was a message on the answering machine at the Unique Space. It was the general manager for The Iceman Cometh. 
“I understand you delivered a very special note to Mr. Spacey,” she said when I called back. “Although we cannot accommodate you for every performance, as you’ve requested, Mr. Spacey has asked that you fax over a list of ten dates you would like to attend.” 
The Theatrical Powers That Be stationed me at a spot in 
the standing room area. Five hours on my feet became worth it when Kevin Spacey’s character Hickey focused into the darkness at the back of the theater, right where I was, during the climax of his final monologue. After three or four performances, the ushers realized I was there to stay, and for the rest of the performances they would look around for empty seats. Thus I got to know the production from locations all about the theater. 
The experience provided a high like any drug for the rest of the summer. By the end of the year, though, I was empty inside yet again. 
A passion for the arts had drawn me to New York out of high school six years before. Now, three years of college and three years of working later, I felt jaded by production budgets, marketing plans, and all the schmoozing that sucked the life out of the creativity that I had once loved. I wanted to write, to see the world, to feel alive again, and to resuscitate the hopes and dreams that I’d sacrificed to pursue my hopes and dreams, since the price of hopes and dreams is hopes and dreams. 
“I’m not coming back to New York,” I declared, “unless it invites me back.” 
So I packed my life into two suitcases and got on a plane to Egypt. My plan for the future was a memory: that dusty English language teaching sign above a door of the old AUC library building, which had remained preserved in the formaldehyde of my mind. 
* 
In Cairo, I completed an English language teaching certification course at the International House in Heliopolis, a modern portion of Cairo with large residential buildings and wide boulevards. I shared an apartment for the duration of the course with an Australian who said he didn’t like air conditioning ~~ until he’d spent a week in Cairo in June. 
My first job offer was an English language instruction 
position in Deir Ezzour, the city on the Euphrates that I knew about from finding Palmyra on a map the year before, but had yet to set foot in. The only obstacle to showing up for work was obtaining a visa. I had Israeli stamps in my passport, which barred me from entry into Syria as a matter of policy. The American Embassy issued me a second passport that I could travel with, and I showed up at the Syrian Embassy. 
The Syrian consular official looked at the blank pages inside the pristine passport and flipped to the back. He held it up and looked at me. “You see on this last page at the bottom? That is where it should say that the previous one was lost or stolen.” 
“Yes,” I said in Arabic, “I went to Israel.” Handing over the offer of employment letter that I had received, I continued, “I just want to go to Deir Ezzour to teach English. I visited your country before and it is beautiful.” 
He scowled. 
Within a few days my employer got involved. President Bashar al-Asad had recently assumed power following the death of his father, President Hafez al-Asad. It was before 9/11, let alone the Syrian civil war, and the atmosphere in the Middle East was different then. I may never know how or why my visa was approved; I was told that my employer had called President Bashar’s sister to intervene, or some such story. In any event, a couple weeks later I was on a plane to Damascus, and then on a bus driving on the road to Palmyra, and onward to Deir Ezzour. 
A city of about a quarter million people, Deir Ezzour is so close to the border with Iraq that, back then at least, there were taxis to Baghdad. Syria seemed even warmer and more fun than I remembered it. 
I lived in a house populated from time to time with a few other English teachers: a South African lawyer whose hips swayed with every step and who made no splash when she jumped into the pool at the hotel where we had hamburgers and went 
swimming; a boozy British queen and his Syrian lover, a lovely fellow of few yet meaningful words; and a closeted Irish man who could not seem to stay seated anywhere longer than 60 seconds. 
It was the middle of summer, and the evenings were warm. The queen’s Syrian lover introduced us to a nightclub where we drank Arak ~~ a drink that tastes like licorice and involves pouring an anise-flavored spirit into water, thereby creating a cloudy liquid that resembles a cup of sperm ~~ while watching young women in hijab dance on a barren stage. 
There was no refuge from the heat during the day. We wilted through our classes at the petroleum company where we taught on site. The students ranged from the cousins of current employees to engineers from various countries who held Ph.Ds. The South African and I devised a technique whereby we dressed water bottles up as dolls and gave them out as “Academy Awards” for student performances in class. 
 One night I met a man who drove me on his motorcycle out into the desert, where we made love under the stars, and another time I met a man lying in a park under the same stars. I slept on the roof beneath those stars night after night; the twinkles filled up the sky. 
Yet another evening I ended up in the back of a pickup truck with a bunch of guys, including a real looker, who withdrew a pistol and fired into the starry night sky as we drove through the center of town. We went to bed together that night, and afterward he suggested I inject hormones and become female. 
As it turned out, I would finally start my transition behind locked doors in Egypt the following year. 
But first I went to Iran. Once again, the initial challenge was convincing someone to give me a visa. After my contract ended in Syria, I had returned to teach English in Cairo, where the former Shah Mohamed Reza Pahlavi is buried. Shah Pahlavi, who was supported by the United States, had died in exile in Egypt 
after he left Iran following his ouster by the Islamic Revolution. 
Was there even an Iranian diplomatic mission in Egypt; where the hell was it; and had an American ever shown up there before? 
* 
Tehran. 
I walked through the airport braced for a stand-off at passport control. Much to my enchantment, however, an officer glanced at my visa, stamped it, and waved me through with a wink. Outside in the waiting area, I breathed a sigh of relief: a dozen faded older gentlemen who couldn’t have looked unhappier to be alive stood in a line holding up signs with names on them. My name was in the hands of an adorable late-20-something man with thick, longish black hair, and a smile. 
His name was Vahid, which reminded me of waahid in Arabic, meaning “one.” My guide throughout Iran, Vahid was a dentist, but he worked as a tour guide because he made more money that way and enjoyed working with foreigners. He was in the process of getting a divorce from his wife, a relationship that he explained in bits and pieces in between recounting the history of Iran everywhere we went. He peppered his ruminations with jokes about sex or mullahs or both, and periodically asked me if I wanted him to get me some vodka, which is illegal in Iran. 
I developed affection for Vahid. It would be very hard for me to say goodbye to him at the end of my trip three weeks later. 
The tour involved a circle around the center of the country. First we drove south and east through Yazd, a Zoroastrian center, to Kerman, a modern city in south Iran. From Kerman we went to Bam, an old city of mud brick buildings and the site of the Arg-é Bam, the Bam Citadel, which was the largest adobe building in the world, until an earthquake devastated the town in 2003. One of the most enchanting historical sites I’ve 
been lucky enough to visit so far ~~ a city built seemingly of sand ~~ was reduced to rubble overnight. 
Years later, when I was representing Sulaiman Abu Ghaith (alternately spelled Abu Ghayth) at trial, and he testified about leaving Afghanistan and going to Iran, where he was held in custody for over a decade, I would think about southeastern Iran, near the tripartite border the Iranians share with Afghanistan and Pakistan, not far from Bam. 
After Kerman we visited Shiraz, the literary capital of Iran and the home of the immortal poets Hafez and Saadi, whose tombs, both of which incorporate a light turquoise distinctive of the region, are located in gardens that took me somewhere else. Outside the city we stopped for tea at a café inside a cave overlooking the highway, where Vahid pointed out that a young man and woman nearby were holding hands, an illegal activity that the proprietor of the shop chose to ignore.  
Then we were off to Isfahan, where I met some guys in a little tea shop on the Pol-e Khaju, a covered bridge over the Zayandeh River revered for its exquisiteness; indeed, its arches dance across the water like elves. I explored the music room of the Ali Qapu Palace, where Vahid said the musicians used to play from within niches in the walls above. And I listened to my voice echo inside the brilliant blue-tiled Jameh Mosque, a patch of sky available to us for viewing right here on the earth. I picked up the phrase “Isfahan nasfi jehan” [Isfahan is half the world] and felt I could understand why it had come about. 
Snow was falling when we arrived to Hamedan in the north, though the snowflakes melted on the ground. On Christmas day we went to the Ghar Ali Sadr, the largest water cave in the world, where we floated around on paddleboats and had the usually crowded caves to ourselves. Vahid joked that the stalagmites looked like penises ~~ he really was obsessed with sex jokes. I thought about how it was Christmas and I was pretty 
much as far away from where I was born and raised in central California as I could be in the Northern Hemisphere. 
On the way back to Tehran we stayed a night in Qazvin. Vahid and my driver refused to leave the hotel because, for the last six centuries, Qazvin has had the reputation of being the gayest city in Iran. 
“But I’m gay,” I said, still male-bodied at the time. 
“I know,” Vahid replied. “But you don’t understand. This is Qazvin!!” 
He and the driver descended into howls. 
“So what?” I asked. 
“Cover your ass out there,” Vahid laughed. “This is Qazvin!!” 
He and the driver curled up on their beds, in stitches. 
Vahid cut me loose back in Tehran, even though he said he was supposed to be recording what I did and said for the Iranian intelligence service, while he ran around finalizing his divorce. I was mesmerized by the collections at Tehran Museum of Contemporary Art (seriously, do a search for the list of heavy hitters whose works are housed there) and the National Museum of Iran, and the former shah’s Niyavaran Palace, a specimen of opulence with a retractable roof; and I dined in an Indian restaurant that I found near my hotel. 
To top off the trip, we went to the city of Mashad, a Shiite pilgrimage site that Vahid told me was known for “temporary marriages,” or legal relationships between the sexes available for a fee, which, by agreement of the parties, would last anywhere from a couple hours to a few days. Women in black chadors were everywhere. The city was dusty and chaotic. It was the Wild East. 
My favorite memory of Iran is this one: back in Kerman, Vahid told me to stay in the hotel at night. So I waited for him to go to his room, and then I went out for a walk. I met a nice man 
at a food cart on the street, and he invited me into his home. He opened the door to the living room ~~ a cavern covered in carpets, free of any furniture ~~ and we found his wife and daughter sitting there. 
The man extended his hands as if presenting me on a stage to an audience, and said, “Look!! An American!!” 
The mother and daughter stared at me with their mouths open. 
A moment or two passed, in which no one blinked. Collecting herself, the mother said, in English, “Do you want some vodka?” 
We chatted over tea for an hour or so. Above all, they were interested to know what everyday Americans thought of Iran. 
Just before I left, the mother clasped her hands together in front of her sternum and said, “Please go back and tell people that we do not hate America and we want to be a part of the world.” 
And so I have. 
* 
On my return to Egypt, I spent an overnight layover in Kuwait City. It was New Year’s 2001. I called Information and tracked down a Kuwaiti ex-boyfriend I’d dated in New York a couple years before. An hour later, we were in a Ford Suburban together on the Corniche, a highway along the Persian Gulf which was packed with gay cruising bumper-to-bumper in both directions. 
Some guy drove up next to us on a motorcycle, and so then I was riding on the seat behind a gorgeous new friend as the wind blew on my face. He looked back at me as he wove through traffic, and smiled. 
We rang in New Year’s in a ballroom-sized tent in the middle of the desert on the road to Saudi Arabia. It was filled with 
Kuwaiti transsexuals and East African drummers wearing Gucci. 
Back in Cairo, I confronted my roommate Ahmed: “You’ve been using my bed to sleep with guys while I was gone.” 
“No, I didn’t.” 
“There’s lube all over the sheets, Ahmed.” 
“Just, okay, your bed is bigger. Ta’ala gambi shwaya.” [Come sit next to me for a while.] 
Ahmed and I had caused a stir when we first moved in together. The news sent my landlady into a tizzy because an American and an Egyptian living together was a scandal. I could not have been more delighted when she wanted to break the lease, as I was in a ground-floor apartment that had no sunlight and was forever shaking with a cacophony of children and buses and activity from the school next door from 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. without a lull, or reverberating with the thump, thump, thump, thump, thump of neighborhood kids playing handball on the wall of the Chinese Embassy across the street, a mustard-colored fortress that took up the whole block. 
The new place I found for Ahmed and myself was down the street away from the school. It was on the fifth floor of a walk-up overlooking a courtyard where I saw a sheep slaughtered for Eid ~~ but, al-hamdulillah, it had sunlight. 
Ahmed looked like a pharaoh and I enjoyed his company except for one night when I ended up in a police station downtown after agitating one of his friends who would not stop smoking in the house. That incident would involve patching up a hole in my bedroom door and finding a paint store that utilized a computer system to match the color. I envied Ahmed’s ability to sleep through the end of the world when workers across the street hurled chunks of concrete into a dump truck at 3:00 a.m. ~~ I couldn’t take the noise and, in desperation, I began tossing eggs out the window, which eventually succeeded in driving them away. 
Ahmed insisted on throwing a birthday party for me in our little home. It was a couple months before the arrests on the Queen Boat, a window of special time in Egypt. The Internet had made it possible for young gay men to connect with one another, and a gay community had sprung up. Several dozen people showed up to my party ~~ far more than the only other birthday party I’ve had as an adult: a debacle in my mid-30s that wound up on a rooftop bar in Chelsea when the planned location downstairs was closed due to a mishap relating to the Spring time change. 
My friend Mahmoud came to my party and had a good time, I think, or at least he is smiling in the only picture I have of him, which is from that night. Even then, his eyes glimmer with the sadness of resignation to “almaktoob,” that is, loosely, “what is written.” He told me once that he would acknowledge being gay, only he wouldn’t do anything about it, he simply would go through life alone, enjoying things as much as he could while knowing that solitude would wait for him at home every night. I could relate, even though I was open about dating men in Cairo, perhaps because my struggle with sex addiction had left my heart as empty as his bed. 
The Queen Boat promised something different for Mahmoud, and for anyone who went. Somehow the gay community in Cairo had started conglomerating there, and word of it spread like butter on a skillet. The first time I went, I gaped at the spectacle ~~ guys were dancing together, and even kissing, in the middle of the dance floor, in front of everyone. It could have been any gay club in the West, yet we were right there on the Nile in the center of Cairo, where same-sex intimacy, as prevalent as it was, occurred behind locked doors, just as my nascent gender transition did. 
“You’ve got to check it out,” I told Mahmoud. So he came. 
The evening of the arrests, only the second time I went 
to the Queen Boat, reminds me of a bus ride in Cancun years later. The bus was heading back along the hotel-lined peninsula to the center of town, and two young guys with guitars got onboard. One looked like a jinn; he stood right next to me for a moment of stillness, then they both struck their guitars, and sang. 
Their music was beautiful not just because of the guitar strings and their voices, but because knowledge of the coming end made it so. I had taken the bus in the opposite direction earlier that afternoon, so I knew how long we had left. There were five minutes to go, they sang, there were three and a half minutes, they sang, one minute, they sang, 30 seconds, they sang, right up until the bus stopped and everyone got off, they sang. The beauty of life, for me, is in the transience of each moment experienced, which will never be once more. 
Will I ever see Mahmoud again, or will that night on the Queen Boat be the last time? 
I had been looking forward to meeting him there for days, having gone the week before and recognized the ballast of life I’d known as a teenager and 20-something in New York, incarnated the world round, from Guatemala to Athens, and elsewhere in the West: a gay club. The Queen Boat seemed an unlikely venue for the phenomenon, yet I suppose as likely as any in the Cairo metropolis of ten million, 18 million, 20 million, or more, depending on the boundaries applied, which in the tradition of authoritarianism in Egypt are delineated to encompass grey areas where next to anything can go. 
The Queen Boat is moored on the northeast riverbank of Zamalek, just upstream and across the water from the bulbous Maspero building, which houses the state-owned broadcasting entity known as the Egyptian Radio and Television Union. Years later, in 2011, the Maspero building would be the site of a demonstration by Coptic Christians and others, in which Egyptian military securing the location would kill 28 demonstrators with 
gunfire. 
I could not have fathomed the Maspero Massacre that night I went to the Queen Boat to meet Mahmoud, just as I could not have imagined the arrests that were about to take place. Both remain antithetical to the Egypt that inhabits my heart. 
What stands out in my memory are the holes. I do not remember the weather ~~ it must have been a pleasant spring evening, as it often was. Nor do I remember anything in particular about heading over to the boat. I must have gone by taxi; possibly I went straight from the Hilton Ramses Cinema, where I used to see movies in those days, like Cast Away with Tom Hanks, a story about a man stranded on an island, which has little dialogue, so the audience filled in by chatting away in Arabic while children ran up and down the aisles. I also do not remember what I was wearing ~~ perhaps the baggy attire that I wore to hide the body in which I was becoming increasingly uncomfortable as adulthood wore on. 
And I do not remember what I do not remember ~~ the spaces in between the flashes of instants that comprise time past. 
The murkiness of remembrance washes away as I recall making my way down the walkway from the street to the boat. Back then, the stationary vessel was a floating vestige of better times in need of renovations, or at least a paint job to combat the assault of dilapidation that Cairo dust accelerates without relent. The boat was accessed by a green metal pedestrian ramp extending over the mud at the river’s edge. I leaned backward ever so much to adjust to the incline, so my footsteps, heel first, clunked, though the sounds were swallowed by the beat of music thumping inside the boat. 
The quietude otherwise makes me wonder: was it a set-up? The operation that was about to take place would seem to be choreographed, and the performance finessed. How long had the 
police been planning their raid? Had their gawaasees [informants, or, literally, spies] helped spread the word to attract more men to take away? 
As wound-up a tightwad as I was ~~ more evenings than not that year I ordered koshari, a mixture of macaroni, lentils and rice, with sauce, delivered to my door for two pounds and fifty piasters, a price less than one U.S. dollar even including the tip ~~ I did not mind forking over a cover charge ~~ what was it, 20 Egyptian pounds? ~~ to keep a roof over someplace where gay people could gather and have fun. The paint peeling off the walls of the musty foyer at the entrance didn’t matter: people were dancing inside. 
The boat had ~~ and I believe still has ~~ three main levels, all of which have windows lining the walls. The curtains were drawn in the club portion, which consisted of a dance floor that somehow seemed larger than proportion allowed. There were men everywhere already, and the evening was just beginning. I met one pair of brown eyes after another, searching for Mahmoud. 
The crowd seemed to double in the two minutes it took to find him. 
“Can you believe this?” I laughed. 
Around us guys were dancing together, some in groups and others in pairs joined at the hips. One or two couples were kissing. The bass pounded and the multicolored lights flashed all around. By now the boat was shaking. 
A roomful of human beings had been submerged under the water of repression, and all at once they were coming up for air. Everyone was smiling.  
Mahmoud was next to me and then elsewhere, and then we were dancing together, then joined by others. A number had been to my birthday party two months before. Still others I knew from the happenstance of one night or another. The room heated 
up, and beads of sweat appeared at our temples. 
It was Cairo, and it was somewhere else at the intersection of dreams. We were in Egypt, but we were free. 
And then I realized people were disappearing, and I felt a hand on my shoulder. 
It was a plainclothes Egyptian State Security Officer. He told me to come with him. 
“I am American,” I said. 
He looked at me. 
“I am American,” I repeated. 
He let go and motioned me out the door with his chin. 
Outside, the Egyptians were being piled onto benches in the backs of army trucks lining the street where I had arrived just moments before. The whites of their eyes glistened with scraps of light that strayed in from the night. 
I tried calling Mahmoud but his phone rang once and then hung up. I called again and the call went straight to voicemail. 
I kept calling for days and weeks, until I finally gave up. 
It was a frightening time; we did not know how far the police would go or whom they would come for next. When I met with a representative of the United States Embassy to tell her what happened, she said she’d alert Washington, perhaps even the President would read about it. Then she suggested I consider becoming an intelligence collector for the CIA. I went back to the houseboat where I lived, and spent the summer on the balcony watching the water-skiers on the Nile and writing a play inspired by that night on the Queen Boat. 
I did not know what else to do. I felt powerless in the face of unchecked power, a demon hovering overhead, drunk on the corruption of moral supremacy that breeds itself out of gluttony for the human soul. I wanted to help, yet I had nothing but feelings and opinions to offer. In that moment I resolved to go to law school and become a lawyer, so that I might stand up 
against an over-powerful government on behalf of individual rights ~~ the only mechanism I know of to prune the branches of authority that would otherwise entwine us to suffocation. 
To help my determination congeal, I would first finish what I had gone to Egypt to write ~~ the play that I had known was inside me, the surface of which the Queen Boat nightmare had scratched. 
My research included Eugene O’Neill’s complete stage works, which I had been meaning to study in print since seeing The Iceman Cometh on Broadway two years before. While reading about O’Neill online, I came across an elegy that Kevin Spacey had written for Jason Robards, who had originated the role of Hickey in 1956 ~~ the same role that Kevin Spacey played in the production that had captivated me a couple years before. 
Reading the elegy on my laptop as the undulations of the water skiers on the Nile swayed the houseboat back and forth, I came to understand why Kevin Spacey may have responded to my plea and arranged for me to see the play so many times. Of Jason Robards’s reprisal of Hickey in Washington in 1985, Spacey wrote that he snuck into the Eisenhower Theater to watch the performance, “night after night” ~~ just as I had done, when I was his age. 
Running away from Mahmoud, and the Queen Boat and my play and the stirrings of gender transition, all of which were closing in on me in my mind, I went back to Siwa. I got to pick my way through the old city that I had missed due to the ravages of food poisoning the first time around. I wandered into a cave where human bones were scattered about, and ended up venturing too far in the mud toward an island in a shallow desert lake that I thought would swallow me alive. I also revisited Luxor and Aswan, digging into my past only to unearth a gratitude for having been able to experience these adventures before the onset of adulthood ossified the vision with which I see the world. 
In Cairo I woke up late and worked away at my play on the balcony of the houseboat as the river flowed by. At night I hung with a crew of English teachers from the U.K., one of whom remarked, “I think I visited that same cave in Siwa, the one with a human skull just kicking around on the ground?” Every day that passed, I kept meaning to go back to my former landlord and give him a payment of 93 Egyptian pounds, which I owed for the last phone bill in the apartment I had shared with Ahmed. But I was preoccupied: I had met someone and fallen in love. 
Mohammed was tall and slender, but not too thin, and he wore a goatee and black-rimmed glasses. We saw each other and locked eyes across the room in Horriya, a bar in downtown Cairo where the floor was covered in sawdust and one of the waiters had once pulled his penis out from his pants and put it on the table before laughing and walking away. 
Mohammed and I did not talk the first time we saw each other, but I went back to Horriya the following night and he was there. He came home with me and thus it began. Unlike virtually every other man in my life before then, he came around the next day, and the next, and the next. We never spoke about a relationship, we just had one. After reading and writing all day, I spent time with Mohammed in the evenings ~~ those warm summer nights in Cairo that I had come to love. 
There are two things that I regret in my life so far. Number one was not being more open to the first guy I ever went to bed with when I was 16. He was a very nice guy, something of a jinn in my memory really, but I wasn’t ready for a relationship when it happened. By the time I was ready, which I realized a few months later, it was already too late. 
And number two was not attending the court appearances for the men arrested that night on the Queen Boat. I was there the whole summer in Cairo. I could have gone to court so that Mahmoud would at least have seen me. I could have 
demonstrated my support just by being there. I could have sat in the audience and offered a smile. 
Instead, I tumbled further into love with Mohammed, where it was easier and easier to let fear keep me away from the courtroom. I rationalized staying home by telling myself that I wanted to avoid contributing to a scene, that it wouldn’t do any good for me to be there, that Mahmoud probably did not want to see me anyway. The truth is that I was afraid something would happen to me if I showed my face anywhere in association with the case. The reality I see now is that I let my friend down, and for no reason other than cowardice. 
I say I rationalized my decision; the truth is that I knew what I was doing. I chose to protect myself while wishing I could help my friend. The guilt haunts me to this day. I think of it whenever I lose faith and want to give up practicing law, which is usually once, if not multiple times, every day. 
I have not given up hope that Mahmoud and I will meet again, somehow ~~ perhaps just as, four years later, at Horriya of all places, I ran into another man who had been on the Queen Boat that night. I was on a visit to Cairo, hanging out with Mohammed and a wispy blue-eyed and rosy-cheeked British friend of mine, I’ll call him Stephen, who’d become a bosom buddy while I was living and working in Cairo the year before. I asked after Mahmoud and described him. The stranger said he’d heard my friend’s name, maybe, but the inmates had been held in special confinement due to the high-profile nature of the case, after all it made the international news, and now time had passed… 
Or perhaps I will meet Mahmoud again just as fate has had it in so many other aspects of life. 
Before returning to the United States after that year in Syria, Iran, and Egypt, I met my mom and brother in Athens for a cruise in the Aegean Sea. I arrived the day before they did. I 
spent the night in a hotel with an Iraqi guy I met at a bar. He had fled Iraq through Turkey and ended up in Greece. 
“I’m sorry,” I said. “I’m sorry for the war that my country fought in yours.” 
He took my hands in his and kissed me. And then we went to bed. 
The following morning, I met up with my mom and brother. We saw all the usual sights in Athens, which enamored me all over again. As we were walking around together, I looked up a street and saw the landlord from Cairo whom I owed 93 Egyptian pounds for the phone bill. He was on vacation with his family. 
“Oh good,” I said, “I have something for you.” 
And I reached into my wallet and withdrew the amount I just happened to have leftover in cash from Cairo: 93 Egyptian pounds. 
Within a week our ship had docked at Rhodes, and my brother and I rented Vespas and drove to the Valley of the Butterflies. The sun shone as it had over history in the Mediterranean, and, once we reached our destination, the air brimmed with the fluttering of wings. 
Years later, I’d come across a passage in Haruki Murakami’s novel 1Q84 that would embody the phenomenon for me. One of the characters, an older woman who enjoys spending time in a roomful of butterflies says: 
 
No, I don’t give them names, but I can tell one from another by their shapes and patterns. And besides, there wouldn’t be much point in giving them names: they die so quickly. These people are your nameless friends for just a little while. I come here every day, say hello to the butterflies, and talk about things with them. When the time comes, though, they just quietly go off and 
disappear. I’m sure it means they’ve died, but I can never find their bodies. They don’t leave any trace behind. It’s as if they’ve been absorbed by the air. They’re dainty little creatures that hardly exist at all: they come out of nowhere, search quietly for a few, limited things, and disappear into nothingness again, perhaps to some other world. 
 
I wished that I could share more moments like that afternoon among butterflies with my brother. Was it worth it to have spent so much time as I had done exploring the world alone? Was there anything to life but experiences shimmering in and then out of existence, whisked away by temporality, like the jinn on the bus in Cancun? Was imagination the only pair of hands I was given to grasp people I love? 
Back at our Vespas, I said, “So now you know what I’ve been doing for the past few years. This is my life.” 
“It’s nice,” he said, and off we went.  
II. 
The Heart in San Francisco 
  
1. 
 
July 20, 2003. San Francisco, California. The Saturday morning meeting of my sex addiction recovery program had become a staple since I had moved to the Bay Area eleven months before. It was summer break. I had just finished the first year of law school at the University of California, Hastings College of the Law as a “1L,” and the first year of law school had just about finished me. 
Looking back on that school year, all I see is black. I had started going out to Divas, a transgender bar in the Polk, every Friday and Saturday evening. I’d come home at 2:00 in the morning, make some gnocchi, and eat it while dreaming of Egypt as I re-watched love scenes between Ralph Fiennes and Kristin Scott Thomas in The English Patient for the 40,000th time. I spent the rest of the weekend studying and trying to understand what all the rules, statutes and cases I needed to learn were going on about ~~ a pursuit that would cycle toward intensity once Monday came and the week started up again. 
Groping about in the cloud of seclusion that surrounded me, I drank myself to sleep, first just on the weekends, and then, soon enough, weeknights as well. This habit hampered my recovery, and I relied on a therapist over in the East Bay who was helping me survive the throes of gender transition. 
At 26, I was young enough to endure this schedule and still get on my bike at 8:00 in the morning to make it to the Saturday recovery meeting on time, coffee in hand, alert and attentive to the readings and shares of others. Not that there was a choice: I needed to be at meetings to stay abstinent, not from sex altogether, but rather from the addictive behaviors that made my life unmanageable ~~ anonymous sex, phone sex, cybersex and pornography ~~ forms of sexual activity which were, for me, attempts to rub out the unease of being in the wrong body 
through forms of self-effacement. 
I did not want to be in a male body; I never had. Until now I had run from one city or country to another in an attempt to escape into oblivion, where anger at my predicament could not reach me. But denial only exacerbated the discrepancy between my reality and my potential. The mirror of life followed me everywhere, and the shame in which addiction coated me obscured the reflections I saw. 
Impulsion distorted any sense of self-worth, which worsened the disgrace of being unable to control my addiction. After engaging in behavior that I’d promised last time I would never do again, here I was doing the same thing once more ~~ again, and again, and again and again and again. 
I ventured further into the abyss each time I acted out. Yesterday’s rush fell short of what I needed today ~~ riskier danger, steeper precipices, and more, always more. There was never enough of anything because my addiction craved annihilation above all else. Every letdown fanned the flames of the hell that life became when I acted out. 
And yet I sought even more. 
I wanted to stop. I promised myself I would stop. 
I could not stop. 
Compulsive sexual activity had been a problem for me since age 16. I grew up in a mid-sized town called Modesto in the Central Valley of California. We were more or less two hours from everything: the arts and culture of San Francisco, the beach in Santa Cruz, the majesty of Yosemite, and skiing resorts at Tahoe. More or less two hours from everywhere, and in the middle of nowhere. A combination of wanderlust, pretension, and teenage disaffection hypnotized me into certainty that the grass was greener elsewhere, and Woody Allen’s movies about New York and other films and literature from around the world confirmed the proposition I sought to prove. 
I dealt with the problem by getting in the old grey Volvo that my dad handed down to me when I got my driver’s license (I scheduled the first available appointment at the DMV the morning of my 16th birthday), and driving as far as I could go. I would put Tracy Chapman’s “Fast Car” on repeat (back when repeat meant the cassette player automatically rewound itself at the end of a song), and I would head out past the city limits, beyond the cow pastures and orchards, and into the hills. Chain-smoking cigarettes that I shouldn’t have been able to buy, I sang along ~~ “I had a feeling I could be someone, be someone, be someone” ~~ trying to believe the words were true. 
Sooner or later I discovered a gay male acting out place on the outskirts of town. I did not know one other gay-identified male-bodied person in my high school of over 3,000 students, and finding a boyfriend seemed out of the question anyway ~~ just as it does to this day, even though it has happened three times since my transition. The acting out place I circled back to every night gave me the opportunity to toss all the conflicts of my desires into a pit of sexuality with men who remained anonymous. I chose not to think about how sex with me was a crime because I was underage, or how I was putting myself in danger of being injured, raped, or worse. 
I also placated myself with the misconception that running these risks strengthened me against the hazards of emotion. Reducing intimacy to sex acts with strangers hardened my feelings of disappointment at abandonment afterward. In turn, this shell of emptiness produced an illusion of protection that would extend beyond sex out into my life in general: I believed I was tougher than I really could be. I drank this Kool-Aid of irony to delirium in the pursuit of dreams I might otherwise have shied away from as impossibilities. 
These delusions weakened parts of me beyond recognition. Each time I had anonymous sex, nightly if I could, 
and often with multiple people, either individually or together in threesomes or groups, I forfeited another piece of my heart. I longed for nothing but love, just like everyone else, as if my own life depended on the validation of affection to begin. Yet the beginning never came: I sought that love, minute after minute, hour after hour, night after night, in an environment where it was most unlikely to be found, and, even if it came into being there, it could not have survived. 
I put everything I had into building this force field around myself. The result was that nothing remained inside to protect. As the cycle wore on, I was more exposed than ever. Instead of safeguarding my vulnerability for a human connection that could last, I turned myself over for disposal as a cum rag. 
I knew I had a problem. I guess I thought that getting out of Modesto and going to New York would somehow make everything better. 
In a way I suppose it did, at least for the first year. Shortly after I got to New York, I met someone and fell in love. He was 19 and had very blond hair and blue eyes, and I’ll call him Alexander. He is the one who showed me the store on University where cigarettes cost $2 a pack. 
We were introduced to each other through his boyfriend at the time, the only other student at NYU from Modesto that I knew of. One night, I was walking home west on 10th Street, and Alexander was walking east. We started talking; the conversation went on as we sat down on a stoop in front of a brownstone, where we talked until the sun came up. Then we went to breakfast, and kept talking. 
By the end of the year, he had broken up with the boyfriend; and we were still talking, that is, whenever we weren’t reading. HE SUGGESTED I READ JOHN IRVING’S A PRAYER FOR OWEN MEANY, WHICH I DID, AND I NEVER RETURNED THE HARDBACK COPY HE LEANT 
ME BECAUSE I LOVED IT SO MUCH. We endeavored to find out if we imagined the same nasal ring for Owen Meany’s voice, which Irving had distinguished by using all capital letters. And we smoked a lot of cigarettes. 
Our habit was to stay awake and talk until sunrise, as we had done the first night we met, and so one morning we found ourselves sitting on a bench in little McCarthy Square, which is actually a triangle, talking, because we weren’t reading. “You have a great back of the neck,” he said, and touched my spine just beneath my skull with his tobacco-stained fingers. 
Alas my trip to Guatemala that summer changed me into a different person. Alexander and I drifted apart as lovers, though we have remained friends ever since. I often pass by McCarthy Square or that stoop on 10th Street and think about those few months we spent together, talking and reading, when life seemed limitless and the only boundaries were our dreams. Years later, I was walking up Fourth Avenue, not too far from 10th Street, reliving these memories as I often do, when I looked up and saw him. 
“Oh, good,” I said. “I was just thinking about you.” 
We huddled beneath my umbrella and caught up on the years. 
* 
The life I led in addiction during my second year in college spiraled into a nightmare. By then I had discovered video booths and phone sex, and, co-extant with the advent of the widespread consumer Internet, cybersex. I holed up in my apartment in the East Village above the stoop where the man I never met had been shot. I lost interest in letting other people get to know me, much as I lost sight of intimacy and lost count of how many men I had been with. 
Somehow, by the grace of God, my sexual activity had not yet involved being penetrated. Perhaps it was because I had 
grown up in the 1980s, and the year was now 1995 going into 1996, so I was terrified of HIV/AIDS. But I am an addict, and I sought ever higher highs, notwithstanding whatever kernel of self-preservation I managed to maintain. In the flurry of my addiction, I do not remember the first person who was inside me ~~ it is a memory I may never have, and a moment I will never get back. 
Years later, I would experience something of a second chance. However, I could not imagine redemption at the time, a college student pissing away my house management and babysitting money on Internet sex, and living in a bubble of shame that got in the way of showing other people, especially men, how I felt for them. I became more and more isolated, as my addiction tightened in a tourniquet around the very dreams of love on which it fed. There was no hope, I thought, and no reason for me to be alive. 
 It was in this period when I tried to kill myself. I had been prescribed tranquilizers to offset whatever antidepressant I was on at the time, and I washed down one after another with alcohol until a very unlikely friend apparently called me, and an ambulance came. 
I spent a week in the hospital, stuck in a room with five men suffering from various mental ailments. One would come and sit right next to me on my bed as I was reading and put his hand on my thigh, and another would walk down the halls screaming in pain because he needed a cigarette and the nurses refused to give him Nicorette. Another patient, the only one close to my age, asked me about the pile of books at the side of my bed that a friend had brought for me, and he spent the rest of the week poring over Elective Affinities by Goethe, which I was reading for one personal research project or another at the time. 
“It speaks to me,” he explained. 
A week later, after my tasteless meal of juevos rancheros at Life Café, I went back to my apartment, climbed the six flights 
of stairs reeking of cat urine, and buried myself in my Arabic studies. I was unable to concentrate on anything else ~~ not my writing projects for school, not the books I was assigned or wanted to read, not even the movies that I would rent after poking around the floors full of foreign films organized by director or country at Kim’s Video on St. Mark’s Place. At school, a professor whom I had for an independent study did not read a play I wrote; I tried to make myself believe that I was nevertheless worthwhile, even though I saw the opposite in each self-fulfilling prophecy I made. 
Arabic saved me. To this day, I turn to the language when nothing else helps, and its exquisiteness calms me down. 
The fury of my sex addiction raged up again during the summer I spent at the University of Chicago, where Arabic once again tethered me to a semblance of sanity, and then in Cairo after the initial novelty wore off and the loneliness settled in, and my emotions crumbled into a mess around me. But back in New York, when I inadvertently entered my final semester of college, I ran out of Arabic classes. Since I had pursued my studies in Chicago and then Egypt, I had graduated out of the levels of study available at NYU. 
So I turned to writing for whatever solace I could find. I knew that Eugene O’Neill had worked on his autobiographical play Long Day’s Journey Into Night for much of his career. The prospect of wrangling with the demons of childhood for the majority of my adult life horrified me. As a final project at school, therefore, I wrote, produced, and directed a play about growing up, which I entitled Rumors: A Family. 
The production was the result of standing up for myself in the same way that, years later, I would stand up for my clients as a lawyer. After months of prodding the delinquent independent study professor to read the work I had produced for my class with him a year before, I realized that he was, for whatever reason, 
going to keep putting me off. I marched into the Dean’s office and demanded recompense. The school pacified me with a new independent study in which I could do basically whatever I wanted, namely, Rumors. 
Getting that play out of my system did not work. Addiction was the way of life I had come to know as a young adult, and I could not imagine life without it. After long enough I just figured I would go on living by adhering to a few drop-dead ground rules, for safety’s sake, which I somehow managed to respect. I let my intimate life disintegrate, assuming that soon there would be nothing left, at which point I would be free of desire altogether. 
This approach didn’t work either. The further I slid into my addiction, the more I pined for love. Once I met a really nice guy and invited him over to the Unique Space for dinner; I made myself believe that I blew it by putting too much garlic salt in the pasta dish I made, but I knew deep inside that it was my unavailability, and not the seasoning, that drove him away. 
Eventually I landed in the hospital with a “fever of unknown origin” (FUO, the doctors called it), which lingered over 105 degrees for a week and kept me shivering under an electric cold blanket, hallucinating all the while. The following week I was right back at it, having anonymous sex as soon as I was discharged ~~ until, sure enough, I returned to the hospital with another FUO. This time I was worried, and alone: my boss from The New Group didn’t come to visit, as she had the time before. I was trying people’s patience; things could only get worse. 
What movie aired on TV as I lay in my hospital bed but Philadelphia, in which Tom Hanks plays a lawyer who’s fired for being gay and ultimately dies of AIDS. 
“Okay, God,” I said. “I’ll stop.” 
But of course I didn’t. I am an addict. 
My addiction wants me to be a moth flying at a flame 
~~ and, left to my own devices, I, like Icarus, will fly too close to the sun and burn my wings. 
I acted out for ever more potent highs with, paradoxically, ever more debasing behavior, so that demoralization imbued whatever self-worth I had left, until I saw myself as deserving nothing more. I began to believe what I believed other people believed about me. 
I started going to meetings in San Francisco in October of 2001, in the wake of the attacks on the World Trade Center the month before. My addiction succeeded in making life unmanageable, and I was trying to salvage my soul. 
I had just returned from Cairo the preceding August, and I wanted to hang out with my dad in Modesto as I prepared for the LSAT. I figured I would just enjoy some time with him and then return to Egypt to be with Mohammed prior to law school. I had been monogamous with him when we were together in Cairo, and we remained in contact even though I’d left Egypt to focus on my law school applications. It was not perfect or anything close to it ~~ once or twice he had frightened me and several times I thought it was over ~~ but the passion was alive, and our evenings together on the balcony of the houseboat were fresh in my thoughts. 
“Azzakriyat,” he once said to me years later. “Azzakriyat…” [The memories...] 
My response to 9/11 was immediate: I will use my sex addiction, I vowed, to dull my feelings from this catastrophe; I will let the compulsions take over and drive me into the ground. 
I am not proud of my decision. It was the most shameful one I feel I have ever made. 
Three weeks later, I was a shell of a human being, and I realized that I would not survive unless I got help. I do not understand how I got through the LSAT, but I did. Afterward, I went online and researched recovery programs. The nearest sex 
addiction recovery fellowship was in San Francisco, so I drove for two hours and attended my first meeting. It was excruciating to introduce myself, but I felt better as soon as I did, and I was welcomed with acceptance. 
A man who would become a friend came up to me after the meeting and asked me how I felt. He told me he could relate. 
“Keep coming back,” he said. 
And so I did, driving two hours each way for each meeting. I wanted to get better so badly, I was willing to do anything to recover. 
At first recovery was hell. Abstaining from my addictive and compulsive behaviors on a daily basis was a minute-by-minute process. I had headaches all the time, I experienced trouble sleeping and woke up from nightmares, and sometimes I would start sweating out of the blue. To counter having to peel myself out of bed in the morning wondering how I would make it through the day, I started a morning practice of reading and journaling in hopes that focusing on spirituality would at least set me on the right foot. 
I kept slipping in the beginning, until November 14. That night I broke down and went straight from a meeting to a sex club, where I met an incredibly hot guy, whom I’ll call Tom, and ended up going home with him. Tom was very smart, and we got to talking under the covers, which included a very heavy wool blanket to ward off the San Francisco summer. 
At some point that night I climbed back into bed after a trip to the bathroom and Tom said, “Alright, I totally farted and didn’t lift the covers.” I laughed, happy to have met someone I enjoyed being with. 
I fell asleep in his bed thinking maybe I had been all wrong with recovery. Yeah, I just needed to find the right guy, that’s all. 
We went for breakfast at a little spot around the corner 
from Tom’s apartment. He poured sugar into his coffee at the supplies island and then sat down across the table from me. I smiled at him, and he smiled back. The sun was shining outside; it was a beautiful day. 
“I can’t have a relationship right now,” he said. 
Then he stood up and left. 
* 
That day, November 15, was my new sexual sobriety date. 
For the next eight months, the horizon of recovery was visible to me. The memory of that sunny morning in the coffee shop with Tom shone in my mind, and I thought about it every time the urge to act out arose. Countless such signs had been lost on me in the past, but this one stuck: Tom possessed every characteristic I thought I was looking for in a man, only recovery had opened my eyes to the reality beneath the surface of fantasy. 
Yet life is no more black and white in recovery than it had been in addiction, indeed, it is a spectrum beyond my imagination. There are more colors in the world than the normal eye can see; whereas most people apparently have three “cones” in their eyes to distinguish a million different colors, a very few individuals known as “tetrachromats” apparently have four cones enabling them to see a hundred million colors. As I emerged from the darkness of addiction, the glare and multifariousness of emotions and reality overwhelmed me. 
Once I began to appreciate multiplicity in feelings, so I also began to perceive gradations of good and bad in everyday life. Tom and I ended up becoming friends, and through him I met someone involved in a water polo team in San Francisco. Sure enough, I had been looking for a water polo team to play with for the past few years. I started going every week as if it were my religion, the next dot in a series that I could not have connected beforehand. 
I spent much of my time in early recovery going to meetings, doing step work, and binge-watching episodes of The Sopranos on DVD. Years later, the first federal appeal I worked on as an associate lawyer ~~ which we won ~~ was a mafia case involving the New Jersey organized crime family on which The Sopranos was based. 
Anyway, my new addiction, as it were, was my morning practice, which expanded from a few minutes of spiritual check-in to at least a half-hour of reading, writing, and pondering not just my recovery, but also life on earth in general. Whereas before I dreaded getting up in the morning, now I had begun to look forward to waking up early and musing on God and the soul. I sprang up for this endeavor at the same time I used to go to bed after a night of acting out. My life was becoming the opposite of itself. 
For the next several months, I stayed in Modesto, spending time with my dad and waiting, and waiting, and waiting, for responses to my law school applications to arrive in the mail. I continued driving over to San Francisco for meetings a few days a week, grateful notwithstanding the 90-mile drive to have meetings to go to at all. 
On weekends I combined meetings with water polo scrimmages. Sooner or later I met a guy on the team, we fell for each other, and I moved into his apartment in the Mission district of San Francisco. He lived above a Pakistani restaurant where he introduced me to the unrivaled experience of a mango lassi. We broke up after like five seconds. But I stayed there in his apartment for a while, paying my rent with sweat by chipping paint off the ceiling in the spare bedroom. 
I started getting to know San Francisco as an adult, since my visits there growing up had been limited to the ballet and the movies. My dad tells me that the first time I ever went to the ballet, when I was four years old, he had debated whether to take me 
because I was sick with a fever. As the story goes, I slept the whole drive beforehand; once the curtain rose, I sat on the edge of my seat with my eyes wide as saucers the whole time. I remember going to McDonald’s afterwards, where we saw a group of ballerinas, and I could not take my eyes off them then either. Later, my experience of San Francisco comprised the foreign films that I caught by ditching high school on days when I had a full tank of gas in the car. 
Living in the Mission with the water polo teammate, I walked or took the bus or BART most places, often reasoning, perversely, that whatever parking spot I had was so convenient that I couldn’t possibly lose it. I waited tables for a living and looked forward to law school in the fall. 
By this time, I had found a sponsor in my recovery program, or rather he had found me. Finding a match had required saying I was in search of help at every meeting I went to. Weeks and then months passed before it happened, but then it did. And then the next thing I knew, I was being guided through the arduous and transformative process of writing my first step ~~ a sexual history that would serve as the backbone of my recovery henceforth. 
My sponsor suggested I approach the project by beginning with my childhood experiences and then working chronologically right up to the present. I wrote as much as I could every day, wanting in desperation to be done with the damn thing because it was so painful to face the shame. At first, ignominy seemed to be a pit without end. So much of my sex life had been the opposite of intimacy: there were some pleasant moments and memories along the way, with beautiful human beings for sure, only they were obscured by the film of sludge that my addiction left behind, crawling over my life like a rotting snail. 
Writing my first step washed much of that filth away. I was able to look at my sexual history for what it was: a series of 
choices, actions, and consequences, all of which led to the fork in the road where I found myself at that moment in recovery. My life had become unmanageable and I had lost myself, but I had also learned that I still had something inside me that yearned to give. I came to believe that I was more than my worst moments, no matter how low I had sunk in the past. 
I read my first step aloud at a meeting around the corner from the sex club where I had slipped with Tom half a year before. The meeting was crammed into a room that was a fraction of the size it needed to be to accommodate everyone. Sharing the personal history I had written, with all its precision and details of acting out, exposed my soul. The feeling of rawness triggered me as I groped about for faith in the program, trying to remember that all the people who had just heard me, most of them strangers, were there for the same reason I was: to recover. 
Afterward, I went outside into the chilly San Francisco evening, looked at the sex club across the street, and walked away. 
* 
That summer I went back to Egypt to see Mohammed. Shortly after I arrived, we found ourselves in a taxi on one of those warm summer nights in Cairo when everything seemed like it was supposed to be, driving across the 15 May Bridge over the Nile on our way to Horriya. His arm was around me and the air came in through the window onto my face, just as it had the night I arrived in Cairo for the very first time six years before. Stephen, my blue-eyed and rosy-cheeked British friend, sat in the front seat gazing out the window and turning around every once in a while to needle Mohammed with British-isms. 
“Iskuut,” Mohammed said. “Isssskuuuuuut…” [Be quiet…] 
Horriya was the same. There was sawdust on the floor, as before, and the same waiters were still floating around the room with trays balancing bottles of the Egyptian beer Stella and glasses of water and little dishes of fava beans. Within minutes I had been 
through two dishes of those beans, and a trace of bean skin was stuck on the edge of my lip. Mohammed reached up, took my chin in his palm and wiped it with the ball of his thumb. 
Apparently this gesture of affection made the two guys at a table nearby comfortable enough to start talking to us. One was a lawyer; the other had just gotten out of jail. 
And so it was that I met the man who had been arrested on the Queen Boat the year before, who thought he might have heard of my friend Mahmoud but could not remember for certain. 
I asked this stranger, whom I did not remember seeing before, whether the international media attention had helped the case or hurt it. 
“For us it was like, how you call it,” he said, and traced his thumb and forefinger in the air in front of him. 
“A double-edged sword?” I asked. 
“Yes,” he said. “A double-edged sword.” 
Years later, in a capital case on appeal in the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, I would argue that trial counsel has a duty to investigate evidence mitigating against a death sentence on behalf of the defendant, even if it is double-edged. The Supreme Court has said as much. In my law practice, I have yet to encounter any piece of evidence which, given the full range of possible interpretation, could represent only one proposition, and not another. Life is a double-edged sword. 
The first couple of weeks back in Cairo were a dream for me. I hung out on the same houseboat where I’d lived the previous summer, a few boats down the river from the houseboat where Stephen lived. Little had changed; my houseboat was still falling apart, and it was still run by the same bawaba, a large woman who lived in a hut on the riverbank with several children ~~ I never achieved a firm grasp on how many ~~ and whose striking eyes were perpetually darkened with kohl. 
Mohammed showed up every night and we went out or 
relaxed on the balcony and watched the water go by while listening to Nina Simone’s Wild Is the Wind, which Mohammed had asked me to bring from the States. My heart felt full, and I was happy. 
Until I discovered that Mohammed was stealing money from me. 
At first he denied it. But it happened again, and then again. I confronted him each time, and finally he explained: he was taking my money and using it to buy heroin. 
“You are shooting heroin?” I asked. 
“No,” he said, “I burn it. I am addict.” 
Our goodbye lasted for almost a week. I cried in his arms for several hours straight before my flight back to the States. We sat on the balcony, as we always had, and he cried too. I had always thought that the idea of tears springing from a person’s eyes was no more than a literary flourish. That afternoon, I discovered that it really happens. 
Years later, I would experience a similar phenomenon saying another goodbye in Manzanillo, Mexico, in the room of a hotel on the Pacific coast where the movie 10, with Bo Derek and Dudley Moore, was filmed. One thing is for sure about recovery from sex addiction: getting in touch with my emotions meant that I was going to feel them. Whether it is better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all is beyond me. But I do know I will take azzakriyat, azzakriyat… to the grave. 
* 
I was not always ape shit for The English Patient. Back in the 90s, when I saw the movie for the first time, I was nothing but criticism. My disdain turned on one scene: the Christmas party when Kristin Scott Thomas pretends to swoon from the heat so that she can get away from the crowd and make love with Ralph Fiennes in an alcove away from everyone. “Fuck that,” I told my friends. “It’s not hot in Cairo at Christmastime.” 
Later, during my first year of law school, after I bumbled 
home from Divas each weekend, I put The English Patient on and turned to that Christmastime scene over and over again, and the other scenes in Egypt, too. 
To understand why, I must go back to the fourth grade, when I had first heard about the concept of a sex change. I was on the playground with my sign language partner, a deaf boy with whom I had been paired up for practice and had a crush on, and a couple other kids. Someone brought up the subject of transsexuals. To me the idea seemed like the most natural thing in the world, yet it would be years before I would be able to take the step myself. 
As puberty hit, I drowned my gender identity in sex addiction. Anonymous sex provided an avenue for assuming the role in which I was comfortable, while covering up the longings I felt inside, if only for as long as I acted out. Since the sex was over before it began, and I never knew my partners, the underbelly of my gender dissipated upon expression. Thus I sought to suppress myself under the illusion of control. 
Acting out succeeded in bottling me up, which only increased the pressurization over time. The male corpus I lived in was throttling me. I had become so used to fantasy that I saw no way out until recovery opened the door, first a sliver, and then all the way. Still, a part of me remained shielded in imagination so I could dream of something to live for. 
Watching the Egyptian scenes from The English Patient, I yearned to experience such love between a man and a woman myself. Those moments on the TV screen between Ralph Fiennes and Kristin Scott Thomas were my conduit to the other side of my sex change. In the coming years, I would put up an online dating profile on Nerve.com, and, along with a quarter of everyone else on the site, I would answer the favorite sex scene question with the Christmas sequence I had once scoffed at. It was all in the calibration of desire with which Ralph Fiennes 
moves the satin strap of Kristin Scott Thomas’s bra over her shoulder. 
I wanted to be held as she was held, and touched, by a man, that way. 
In the meantime I kept going to Divas. 
The club was a discovery from early on in my transition, before I started taking hormones. There, in this low-lit den of iniquity with multiple floors, I could present as female even though I was still living my daily life as male. I felt too self-conscious to be myself anywhere but this world created for transgender people and guys who were interested; once inside, I was free, even if I still felt alone. I was out-of-place as a first-year law student ~~ many other girls there had been forced into prostitution to pay for their transitions, and one time I walked in on two girls smoking crack in the bathroom ~~ but it was better than nothing. 
I made friends and became acquainted with the other regulars, including several men. The place became a sort of home for me, where I was safe, away from the judgment of the outside world. Every once in a while I would meet a man and he would take me out to eat at a diner up the street at 1:00 in the morning; sometimes we’d even go out on a date or talk on the phone a few times before things petered out or they got cold feet. Years later, I drove by Divas during the day and saw a decrepit dive bar that held much of the sadness and isolation that I’d felt shedding skins in my transition. 
The clarity of retrospect was obscured not just by the compression of time that had yet to expand in a bang, but more so by idealism. My life was, for those months, a castle in the clouds where I danced during the day among law books, through the evening at recovery meetings or at the gender therapist’s office over in the East Bay, and then all night at Divas on weekends and sometimes in between. I had never had to study in my life before 
as I did in law school ~~ up through high school I finished my homework in class and I sailed through college by writing plays and learning Arabic, all of which felt more like making artwork than anything else. No more. Everything was about to come crashing down and I would show bruises from trying to skate on air. 
Years would pass before I came to understand that I had gone to law school for the same reason I felt drawn to love scenes from The English Patient and the escape of Divas. The life that I was living in these worlds had all sprouted from one seed: that night on the Queen Boat. The arrests crystalized a fear pulsing in each heartbeat on earth ~~ life is nasty, brutish, and short, and it may be taken away at any time. Nothing was worth an effort unless I could live in freedom as me. 
But the cusp of this transformation lay yet on the horizon. For the time being I was trudging through my days as though they were mountains in the desert outside Luxor ~~ however many peaks I climbed, the top of one would yield the beginning of another, and another. 
* 
That winter break, law school schooled me. After dealing with the first semester and the first phase of my gender transition simultaneously, I decided the only course to maintain sanity was to blow my savings on a trip to Mexico for a couple weeks. I went to Mexico City, Guadalajara, a random coastal town on the Pacific where I slept on the beach, and the Yucatan. In Guadalajara, I went dancing at a club where a lesbian materialized, hit on me, and then vanished as quickly as she had appeared; I asked her friend what had happened and was overjoyed to learn that she read me as female, even though I had yet to start my hormone regimen at the time. 
Cancun held no interest for me but it was easy to fly into, and, if I hadn’t given it a shot, I would’ve missed the jinn on the 
bus whose voice intertwined with his friend’s in the songs emanating from their guitars in waves through the air ~~ a moment rendered eternal for me through its very ephemerality, and an experience which defines my understanding of beauty to this day. 
That night, after the jinn had sung, I returned to the hostel where I was staying and went online to check my first semester grades. 
It is no secret that first-year grades are considered the most important benchmarks in law school. Those grades are what employers look at during on-campus interviews with 2Ls; those on-campus interviews lead to the “summer associate” positions the following summer before the third and final year of school; those “summer associate” positions yield offers for initial associate positions after graduation; and those positions are where a legal career begins. In other words, according to The Plan, first year grades determine the rest of a lawyer’s time on earth. 
When I saw that I had flunked my first year of law school, my first thought was to give up and drop out of life. Fuck my hopes and dreams. I would just stay in Mexico where I could improve my Spanish, go back to teaching English, and lick the wounds of failure until I figured out how to go on. On the one hand, there was the temptation to run away from my problems at school; on the other, the temptation to run like hell even stronger. 
But I am not a quitter. 
Back at school, I tracked down my Torts professor, Marsha Cohen. I demanded an explanation for the low grade I had received, and through our conversation I came to understand what had happened. 
“Are you telling me that my work is below par for this institution?” 
Professor Cohen nodded. 
I suggested that perhaps I should just cut my losses and 
go back to teaching. 
She saw right through me. “Don’t give up so easily,” she said. 
So I didn’t. Instead, I redoubled my efforts and kept trying and trying and trying ~~ trying my damnedest, even though at that point I admitted that I really had no idea what law school wanted from me and what on earth was happening. 
My days became all law. I woke up at 6:00 in the morning, reached over to grab a law book, and read cases over coffee and breakfast until my first class in the morning. I read cases on the Stairmaster in the afternoon, and on BART en route to the East Bay, and at recovery meetings in the few minutes before they started. And I read in bed until 11:00 or midnight, or however late I could keep my eyes open. I read, and read, and read, eventually getting to the point where I realized I was squinting at the board in the classroom and could no longer make out street signs while riding my bike. I broke down and got my first pair of glasses (and I read cases while I sat in reception at the optometrist’s, waiting for my eyesight to be tested). 
I strained my back at least once a month carrying around those tomes of case law. I lugged them everywhere, including the park on “Dolores Beach,” the upper corner of Dolores Park where everyone in San Francisco goes for vitamin D when the sun manages to come out and the temperature blasts even one degree over 65. 
Sunbathing and reading case law on Dolores Beach one afternoon was how I met Mario, a cute young guy who reminded me of the last cute young guy I had dated with any degree of seriousness, who was also named Mario. For a second there I was convinced that I would be dating Marios for the rest of my life, and frankly I didn’t mind because I think the name is sexy. Mario the Second stuck around for a while. I would read law books while he slept in bed next to me, and I would read them with the phone 
to my ear as we talked when he called. 
It can be no surprise that the relationship did not last long. But for many years I kept a bracelet he left behind ~~ a black leather band with a turquoise stone. 
The following year I ran into Mario the Second at the End Up, an all-night club in San Francisco where, apropos of the namesake, people ended up. By then I had transitioned and was living as female all the time. I was with a Spaniard I had encountered at another dance club earlier in the night, who was whiling away the wee hours trying to decide whether he was ready to continue making out with a pre-op transgender woman. Mario the Second was sitting next to me and he didn’t even know it. 
“Oh, my God,” he said, “I didn’t recognize you.” 
The Spaniard was sitting on a bench on the other side of me. “This,” said the Spaniard, as he drew circles in the air around my ankle, “this is a female ankle.” 
I said goodbye to Mario the Second and parted ways with the Spaniard, who seemed nice enough, and possibly even sincere, but I read his face. I explained to him that I was a human being, not a sexual experiment, and he said he understood, and it was probably for the best. Later on, I shared about what happened at a recovery meeting, as I had learned to do to avoid incubating shame. I knew that I would probably have some form of that disappointment in the future, and indeed I have, over and over again, until it has become what I expect. 
* 
But all those experiences would come later. Back in May of 2003, at the conclusion of my first year of law school, I awaited another round of grades while the new hormones in my blood started making changes in my body. It was slow agony all around: my nipples hurt more each day as my breasts grew, as those damn grades rolled in, one by one, taking forever. Each grade was good enough on its own, but not quite good enough, even with the 
others, to bring my GPA high enough to free me from academic probation and allow me to continue as a law student. 
Until there was only one grade left ~~ Criminal Law. It was the only subject that had intrigued me that first year, or had made any sense at all in my mind for that matter, and I had enjoyed every second of reading the case book and sitting through the class. Plus, there was the bonus of the professor’s sense of humor, which was the stuff of legend. The class was in peals every day. 
Just as legendary, however, was this particular professor’s tardiness in posting grades. He had tenure, and made no secret of it. One day passed after the deadline for posting grades, and then another, and another. I was in pieces from the wait. 
I called the Registrar’s Office. 
“It’s just that my future is hanging on my grade in this class,” I said. 
“We understand,” the person I spoke to said. “Believe me. Professor ______ is notorious for getting his grades in late. He does this every year.” 
Weeks passed. Weeks. But finally the grades were in. The B+ I got was just enough to keep me in school, by the epidermis of the skin of my teeth. 
I met with all my professors to talk about my grades and learn how I could improve. My Criminal Law professor was last. As we were going over my exam, we discovered that he had failed to give me credit for one particular answer. If he had, I would have earned an A-. 
“I’m not changing it,” he said. The school’s policy on scaling grades among the class was a strict one. “If I change your grade, I have to go back and change them all.” It wasn’t fair, but neither is life. 
Anyway, I didn’t need the grade to be changed. It was 
good enough as it was, just barely, for my purposes. And, more important, it was enough to reinforce what I already knew by then: I was going to be a criminal defense lawyer. Now all I had to do was get through the rest of law school, complete my transition, and make my way on my own. 
* 
I had recently told my parents about my gender transition, and there had been an “intervention” that involved my mom, my dad, and my dad’s wife at the time. They all drove to San Francisco together, sat in my apartment, and told me that gender transitioning would turn my life to shit. 
“If you do this,” my mom said, “I will never be seen with you in public again.” 
She prevailed upon my extended family to speak up as well. Soon enough I received a letter from one of my uncles suggesting that an appropriate response would be to disown me, though our family would never take such a measure. Years later that uncle would take me aside during a visit to Nebraska and tell me about a friend of his who had recently transitioned. And when he saw the first cover of Time magazine featuring a transgender person, he wrote an e-mail telling me how much the issue had to offer for society. 
But, back in the moment, it was too early for all those breakthroughs, so I turned to all I had ~~ my studies and my recovery. My last slip had been eleven months prior, when I was visiting my dad in Modesto after the trip to Egypt that unearthed Mohammed’s heroin addiction. For almost a year now, I had been attending the Saturday morning meeting every weekend. At one point in the meeting, the chairperson would ask everyone who had been on their sexual recovery plan for a year or more to stand up. 
Every week, I saw my fellows rise, and I looked up and around at their faces. I wanted to be among them. I wanted to be 
sexually sober and on my recovery plan for a year or more. I wanted to stand up, too. 
The desire to stand up had long ago become more powerful than the desire to act out, and when the urge to act out entered my mind, I would think about how much I wanted to stand up one day instead. 
The aspiration mattered to me not least because my recovery had given me the support I needed to transition. Whereas prior to recovery I had relegated my feelings about gender to acting out, in the shadows and out of view, now the smog of compulsive behavior had dissipated enough for me to embrace my gender transition as the path in life for which I was meant. 
Indeed, on a recovery program retreat one weekend in the spring of 2003, I sat in a room full of a hundred or so fellows who introduced themselves one by one, until it was my turn. 
“I’m Zoe and I’m a sex addict,” I said, adding, “And that’s the first time I’ve ever had the courage to introduce myself as me.” 
The room erupted into applause, and my fear of darkness met the light of day. As alone and apprehensive as I felt, the future seemed a little less frightening now that I had introduced myself in public, at a meeting, for the first time. 
So there I was, a few weeks hence, at the Saturday morning recovery meeting on July 20, 2003. It had been a year of change for me: I had just scraped by in my first year of law school, I had begun my gender transition, and I had taken my first step along the life-long road of recovery. I had cried myself to sleep many nights after coming home from Divas and watching love scenes from The English Patient, feeling very much alone, and I had come to understand that I was likely to feel alone in that way for a long time, maybe until I died. But this morning I got to stand up with the others. 
Years later, in the weeks before the trial of Usama (alternately spelled Osama) bin Laden’s son-in-law Suleiman Abu Ghaith, The New York Times would publish a profile of me by Benjamin Weiser. The piece was a sort of coming out for me ~~ the first time that I had publicly discussed my transition in any detail. In one of our last e-mails before publication, Ben asked me whether I had wrestled with the thought of losing a client who learned of my gender transition. I responded without having to think: “I believe that standing up to be counted is more important than business, and more rewarding in the end.” 
  
  
2. 
 
January 10, 2005. The apartment building in Bushwick, Brooklyn, where I lived with husband-and-wife roommates. I stood in the stairwell, naked and screaming for help. I did not know my neighbors, having just arrived a couple weeks before. I yelled out, hoping that someone would respond. I did not know if anyone was even in the building at that moment; I only knew that I needed help. 
Bushwick had changed even more than the East Village had in the 12 years since I’d first moved to New York. And so had I. By then I had completed my social transition to female, and now I just needed surgery. Except for that stage of the process, which frightened me in proportion to how much I needed it, I had been living as myself for what already seemed like as long as I could remember. 
I was on my way to finishing up my third year of law school and starting off along the road to becoming a lawyer. Years later, I was having Indian food at Mitali East, my go-to spot in Little India on East 6th Street, across the table from a girl I’d played soccer with in second grade and later kissed after a date one evening in high school. I’ll call her Mona. She had black hair and long fingers, and she read everything she could get her hands on. 
“I was talking to my husband about you,” she said, in between bites of samosa and movements in the air with those slender fingers of hers, “and he just assumed you were female in high school.” 
“You dated girls back then?” 
“For like a second.” 
“Right. Now I remember.” 
“So I said, the gender transition doesn’t surprise me nearly as much as the lawyer thing.” 
“Oh, come on, are you really surprised I’m a lawyer?” 
“No, not really.” 
As I guess childhood friends will do, Mona and I picked up where we had left off 19 years before. We had grown up together, yet there were so many things about one another that we did not know, and might never know. She had not talked to me much about dating women, and I had not talked to her about my struggles with sex addiction on the open sea of The Teenage Years. I saw now that I did not have to be as alone as I had felt back then; I could have reached out to friends if only I had had the courage to admit I needed help. 
There in that stairwell, I had no choice but to call for help. Surviving in one piece was all that mattered. 
I had learned to ask for help through the course of my recovery. In the beginning, my sponsor asked me to call him and check in every day. The initial step involved coming to believe that he, or anyone, wanted to hear from me. But, then again, I had no choice: shortly I realized that I would need to make program buddies with my fellows so that I had phone numbers to call more often than once a day, if need be, whenever the hopelessness seemed overpowering. 
In the weeks following my one-year anniversary, I felt lost in my recovery in a manner I did not recognize. I had spent the year wishing I could stand up at that Saturday morning meeting, and then all of a sudden one day I did. Now what else was there to do except keep going back and standing up? Wasn’t there more? Having found recovery, would I be able to lose myself enough to fall in love again, or was that part of life gone? 
Amidst these quandaries, my mom announced that my brother and me were going with her on another cruise ~~ a sort of last hoorah before I transitioned socially and rendered myself unfit to be seen with in public. 
It was the summer between my first and second years of 
law school, and I was delighted to stop waiting tables, as I was doing in lieu of a summer law job, for a vacation. This time we went to coastal cities in Scandinavia, Estonia, and Russia, and we took a day trip to Moscow. As if anyone could take in Moscow in a day. But we did ~~ the city spun in a whirl of sights, and the only remnants of the venture are some pictures and a CD of Suzanne Vega’s greatest hits that I picked up from a street vendor: it has all my favorite songs of hers, from various points in my life, which I had neglected to download on iTunes, as is the case for me with many songs that predate the Internet Age. 
I loved seeing Estonia, the birthplace of my favorite modern classical and sacred music composer Arvo Pärt, to whom I had been introduced by the owners of the bookstore where I worked when I was 16. The story of my first job goes this way: I had submitted my resume, such as it was, although there were no available positions, and then I had gone back once a week, week after week, until finally one of the employees somehow made the connection that I was her husband’s world history student over at the high school across town. When I discovered this connection, I started going back twice a week, and, soon enough, every day. I wanted that job more than anything. 
Eventually the owners relented. They started me out on Sundays, though truth be told they really did not need to hire another person. I was paid $5 an hour, and after a while I started working Saturdays, too. I learned the book ordering search system (before the Internet) and stocked up my library at a 40 percent discount, all the while listening to the owners’ epic collection of classical music, which we made our way through during business hours, one CD at a time, and always in the order they sat on the shelves. 
“Here,” said my boss after he and his husband took a trip to Las Vegas, handing me Arvo Pärt’s album Tabula Rasa and the Austrian writer Hermann Broch’s The Death of Virgil. “You 
need these.” 
The first time I heard Pärt’s work, composed in a minimalist style that he coined “tintinnabulation,” I thought the experience was what heaven must be like. And The Death of Virgil, an experimental novel about the final hours of the life of the Roman poet Virgil, broke my heart with every page. I spent the evenings acting out sexually, then, when I returned at 11:00 or 12:00 at night, I put on Tabula Rasa and read The Death of Virgil, in awe. I survived on three or four hours of sleep by smoking lots of cigarettes, consuming pots of coffee all day long, and just plain being 16 and in love with the creation of beauty through art. 
Something happened on that Scandinavian cruise, upon visiting Estonia and reliving those nights growing up with Arvo Pärt and Hermann Broch. I was lounging around on the deck looking out at the ocean, and I began to think about the play I had written in Egypt in the wake of the Queen Boat. I had finished a first draft that summer, two years before, but I had let go of the project during the tumult of law school. I told myself that I was busy studying and would get back to writing in due course; the truth is that I was afraid of what was in the material, or rather underneath it. 
On the deck of that cruise ship, however, I realized that the second draft ~~ a draft I could complete and be comfortable sending out ~~ was only a handful of adjustments away. 
Within two weeks of my return to San Francisco for Round Two of law school, a working draft of the play arrived at seven theaters in New York. A week later I got a call from Scott: The New Group was interested in developing my play. 
“But you have to do the work,” Scott said. “I am going to direct it.” 
* 
Law school started up that fall with a vengeance. On-campus interviews commenced a couple weeks into the fall 
semester, and everyone was showing up to class in suits and stepping out to sit down with prospective employers for 20 minutes. The recession in legal hiring was already underway, yet the charade went on, with employers interviewing students even though their firms had no jobs to offer then or in the foreseeable future. I did not schedule a single interview; why bother ~~ my first-year nose-dive kept me out of the running. 
Instead, I read and read and studied and studied, and somehow I began to enjoy sitting in classes and learning law. Whereas before the cases all seemed to stand independently and made no sense, now I saw them come together in a structure of logic and majesty. At last I began to perceive clarity in ambiguity, and the instincts of making an argument stirred within me. The cases clicked and the courses made sense ~~ especially Criminal Procedure, where I learned that many of the Constitutional protections that we take for granted as Americans have been steadily dismantled and torn to shreds by the Supreme Court, mostly over the last half century, at the same time, mysteriously, that the Court was articulating the underlying rights. 
I relished soaking in the art of persuasion, though it would be a long time before I could communicate my thoughts with lucidity. Meanwhile, I took refuge in abstraction whenever I felt uncomfortable with the law or its application to a set of facts. “Black letter law,” a phrase used to describe legal principles that are established beyond question, lay beyond me ~~ as it still does. I do not understand the concept, since the law is alive, and therefore it may mean something one day and another the next, and, in any event, to the extent there is black letter law, how it operates in any given case is always a question for debate. 
“Get into the box,” my remedial writing teacher told me, drawing a box on a piece of paper that had some outline or other that I had wrenched out. “You can do whatever you want later on, but for now, get yourself in this box, and stay there ~~ at least 
until finals.” 
Since I did not have the grades to look for a job, I allocated that time to serving as co-chair of UC Hastings’ LGBT student organization, OUTlaw. Other than a brief stint volunteering for a gay and lesbian immigration legal rights group in between recovery meetings prior to gallivanting back to Egypt to see Mohammed the year before law school, I had no experience with LGBT advocacy, let alone a leadership position in the field. I just wanted to help. 
I nosed around for something to do, and soon we were at war with the Dean of the school over a law known as the Solomon Amendment. 
Designed to stifle dissent over the former anti-gay policy of the military, the Solomon Amendment was passed by Congress in 1996. By that point, many law schools had already prohibited discrimination based on sexual orientation, requiring any prospective employers who wanted to recruit on campus to have a similar anti-discrimination policy in place. The Solomon Amendment allowed for the denial of federal funds to schools whose policies prevented access to on-campus recruiting by the military, in light of its discrimination against LGBT servicemembers. OUTlaw urged the school to join a group of law schools in litigation that challenged this nonsense. 
The Dean refused. We tracked down several professors who served as liaisons for student issues, and they gave us their sympathy, but nothing more. The career office contacted us to discuss “amelioration,” in other words, apologetics for sanctioning discrimination in order to maintain federal funding. We contacted a big law firm for assistance, however, by then the on-campus interviews had concluded and everyone had moved on. 
Years later, in Christian Legal Society v. Martinez, the United States Supreme Court upheld a subsequent Hastings policy of 
inclusivity ~~ one which required all student groups seeking official recognition to accept all students regardless of status or beliefs. Reading the Martinez decision, I was glad we fought the Dean over the Solomon Amendment even though she nixed us in front of the whole school. 
“Never give up,” a mentor would later say to me later on when I was trying, against all odds, to gain federal trial experience. For me, it took participating in the process of legal advocacy to see that a loss may be only all the more reason to keep on fighting. 
Years later, in the summer of 2014, I began serving on the Hastings Board of Governors. In one of the first meetings I attended in that capacity with the new Dean, I learned that Hastings, as a component of the University of California system, used to rely almost exclusively on funding from the State. The year we went to battle over the Solomon Amendment, California had experienced a financial collapse that would last for years. The struggle to keep human rights from falling in the battle of economics happens here at home. 
* 
My transition had the opposite effect of my fears, and, as the fall semester picked up, I made more friends than I’d ever had in my life. One woman from my first year section, with whom I stayed close, gave me a bag of cosmetics from her “former life as a make-up artist.” Another buddy gave me Kevyn Aucoin’s book Making Faces to learn the techniques of color choice and application; also, the day I was dressed in a suit and heels for a Moot Court presentation ~~ argument on a mock appeal before judges played by professional volunteers ~~ the same buddy taught me how to walk with my feet falling in a straight line, as if on a beam. 
“For the caliber of woman you are, you should know how to walk like this when necessary,” she said, charging forth with grace and authority. 
At the beginning of the spring semester, I approached each of my teachers after the first class to explain that I was in the process of a gender transition. Although my name was still male in the school records until I could complete the name change process in court, would they please address me by my correct name, Zoe, and use female pronouns? They all agreed, and one professor ~~ a male ~~ conducted the conversation while staring down at the breasts I had grown since I had begun taking estrogen. 
Toward the end of the school year, OUTlaw experienced success with a Beer on the Beach that we sponsored. Beer on the Beach is a Hastings tradition which involves students gathering on an expanse of concrete in front of the main building for classes at the time, Snodgrass Hall. The “campus” of Hastings, insofar as there is one, is the surrounding Tenderloin District, San Francisco’s version of an inner city. Years before, I had visited my first high school girlfriend in an apartment in the neighborhood, where she and her roommate slept on mattresses on the floor. 
To headline the Beer on the Beach that OUTlaw organized, I arranged for two transgender performers from Divas to come and lip sync on stage. They showed up in full regalia, teetering on stiletto heels and tugging carry-on suitcases that contained additional costumes and make-up. 
One grabbed my arm and looked me in the eyes. “I’ve never performed at a law school before, Zoe. I’ve never performed somewhere like this at all.” 
“They’re going to love you,” I said. 
I was wearing a fitted Princess Leia-like top and a grey mini-skirt that the once-captain of the water polo team I played on had, after a chilling once-over, referred to as “tired.” He’s gay. So much for Gay Sensibility is all I have to say: at that Beer on the Beach, a straight classmate ~~ whom I had a crush on and used to chat with at the gym every day ~~ looked me up and down, 
and complimented me. 
I smiled and cast my eyelashes down and up again in a staccato loop. Even then I knew I would likely remember how much it meant for me to receive that compliment for quite some time, as indeed I have, because I knew, just knew deep down without having to ask, that even if he found himself attracted to me, he wouldn’t let anything happen, not even a date. 
Yet now I wonder: was I wrong? Was the divide I sensed between myself and eligible men a wedge that I created out of nothing, if for no other reason than to defend myself against the potential for disappointment that anyone faces? 
The second semester of my second year at law school was a rosy period. My grades were up to par, and, while I feared I would never find a job and would have no future, I was occupied with plotting a vanishing act for the third year. 
* 
It all began over the winter break, when I went to New York to interview for an internship with the Kings County District Attorney’s Office in Brooklyn. I had sent resumes to every defense organization in the area. To my dismay, I heard from none. So, I swallowed my idealism and decided to go see if I could learn how prosecutions happened. 
My resume had my female name, and I called the DA’s Office beforehand to explain that I was in the middle of a gender transition. I was very nervous and concerned that being transgender would be a problem. The experience was a lesson in humility, smacking me upside the back of the head for prejudging the political beliefs of anyone who worked for a prosecutor’s office. I sat down for my audition, and my interviewer went straight to the point. 
“Why do you want to work here?” she asked. 
“I see it as a way to help people,” I answered. 
“I do too,” she said. “Now let me give you a 
hypothetical.” 
The hypothetical involved a stop-and-frisk scenario, much like a federal gun possession matter ~~ a “felon-in-possession” case ~~ that I would have as a trial lawyer years later. I responded with an analysis under Terry v. Ohio, in which the Supreme Court had said that law enforcement must have reasonable suspicion to stop a person on the street and conduct a pat-down for weapons. 
My interviewer said that my application of the law was correct. Then she asked me what I would do with a gun that had been seized from a defendant once the case was over and the defendant asked for return of the weapon. 
“I would ask my supervisor,” I said. 
“But sometimes you don’t have the opportunity to ask a supervisor.” 
“I would make an opportunity.” 
“Imagine you can’t,” she pressed. 
“Assuming that possession of the gun was illegal to begin with, I would have to decline to return it, since I could not break the law.” 
She looked me in the eye and nodded. Then she told me she had previously worked for a civil rights advocacy organization. 
“There are many groups in society that have struggled for various reasons,” she said. “The struggle of transgender people has been particularly difficult.” 
Then she offered me an internship, and I accepted. New York had invited me back. 
Years later, in my first associate position, I would manage to get back a client’s bullet-proof vest that the police had seized. Years after that, I would come onto the felon-in-possession case I just mentioned after the client had already pleaded guilty. I would get the plea withdrawn and move to dismiss one of the counts under Terry v. Ohio. Despite the client’s 
guilty plea, the court would grant dismissal. 
* 
Over spring break, The New Group flew me to New York for a reading of my play, so that I could see how it was coming together with professional actors and Scott directing. New York had invited me back yet again, and this time the plane ticket was paid for. It was the first time I flew with a plane ticket in my real name, since I had completed my legal name change in California the month before. As the plane rounded Manhattan, I looked down at the skyline that I had been so, so eager to live within as a 17-year-old kid years before, in another life.  
While I was in New York for the reading, I stayed at Brit’s apartment. He lived on the Upper West Side with his partner, Peter, a kindred spirit. 
My first memory of Peter is a photograph in which his face is painted silver and he is sticking out his pierced tongue. 
“I am in love with him,” I said, holding up the photo so Brit could see. 
“Oh, Peter?” Brit said. “Yeah, Peter’s great.” 
Brit and Peter took a few years to get together. Learning that they had fallen in love re-instilled my faith in the surprises that fate holds. 
Peter’s birthday is very close to mine, and he has sent me well wishes throughout the years as I boomeranged out of New York to Egypt, out to San Francisco, then back to New York again. It was with Peter that I threw a joint birthday party that was supposed to happen at in a bar in Chelsea, but that ended up on a rooftop of a nearby hotel. Thank God all of Peter’s childhood friends from the Bronx came; almost no one from my list showed up. My pride deflated until Peter and I hugged goodbye, and he said, “I loved you as _____, and I love you as Zoe.” 
Anyway, every day that spring break I went jogging in Central Park and tried to figure out, after all this time, what the 
Upper West Side was all about. I had put up an online dating profile a couple weeks before just to see what would happen once I arrived in New York, and, lo and behold, I met a lawyer from New Jersey who was tall, dark, and handsome. 
I think it was my first real date as Zoe, excluding hamburgers in the middle of the night at the diner in the Polk around the corner from Divas. Those guys knew about my transition by virtue of where we met, and no discussion was necessary. The tall, dark, and handsome lawyer was the first man I interacted with in The Real World Of Heteronormativity. The way it happened was this: he looked at my pictures and e-mailed me, and then we talked on the phone. 
Dating as a transgender woman before surgery was very awkward. And here I was doing it for the first time. Years later, I would go to a therapist for the purpose of trying to figure out how to talk with men about my past ~~ the exploration of the issue was a six-session project that would explode and extend over three or four years, with no end in sight, until I finally determined there was no answer and just moved on. 
After our date, the tall, dark, and handsome lawyer walked me up to the door of Brit’s apartment. There, in the stairwell, he took me in his arms and kissed me goodnight. 
I pulled back and put my palms on his chest. 
“My body doesn’t bother you?” I asked. 
“Be quiet,” he said, wrapping his arms a little tighter. My heels lifted off the ground. 
* 
Back at law school, finals were upon us within what felt like moments. Among my courses was national security law, which was taught by a visiting professor from New York University. The classes were headed by students who volunteered to go up to the podium and talk about the case materials. These specimens of bravery served as mincemeat for the rest of us who 
lacked the balls to lead a group discussion. 
One class was taught by a classmate whom I would run into at the New York Bar Exam a couple years later. He advocated for discretion by the courts in tackling decisions of the Executive, based on the theory that multiple federal district courts would yield a patchwork of legal decisions on identical issues. 
I raised my hand. “Isn’t that the whole idea of our federal system?” 
There is no truer cliché for me than the proposition that I may not ever regret what I have done so much as what I have not done. I wish that I had mustered up the courage to volunteer for a discussion in that national security law class ~~ not just because that area of law would one day come to have significance to my practice, but more so because perhaps the exercise would have helped me to overcome the fears of inadequacy that I felt due to my performance in law school as a 1L. 
Another ten years would pass before news reporters wrote down what I said in court and their papers published it, and I appeared on TV to talk about legal issues. My first-year performance still haunts me because I do not understand why it was so hard for me to work with material that everyone else around me seemed to take to sooner, and certainly by the time our first finals rolled around. 
My confidence had remained shaken during my second year. Competency in law had yet to feel anything near real. 
What’s more, I had yet to arrive in my body and settle for the duration. Even though the hormones had done much of the feminizing that they were going to do, they had yet to soften my shoulders and the contours of my physique to where I felt comfortable. Part of the problem was that I refused to give up exercising daily, so the hormone therapy battled with athleticism and therefore required more time. On top of everything, since it was before the surgery, I was still producing testosterone, which 
made a difference even though I was taking medication to suppress it. 
Another year or two would pass before I caught glances in the mirror and wondered for a second, Who’s that woman?, and a second later thought, Oh, my God, that reflection is me, when will I believe all this can really happen? Peace with mirrors was on the horizon, albeit many months of journeying away. 
In the meantime, my potential as a lawyer, and as a human being who dreamed of happiness like everyone else, would do battle with a chorus of voices in my head that told me I was less than. Less than whom? Virtually anyone, I supposed. Everyone else had figured life out; they were all in on a secret that eluded me; I had gotten started too late and I was basically fucked; other people had knowledge about how stuff was meant to happen and what was at the bottom of things, they just knew. 
This refrain depended on dividing other people into two categories: those who had done well in law school, and women who were born the right way. To the extent that someone did not fall into either group, it was merely a question of which group they would belong to, if pressed by analysis into one or the other. Each category yielded fodder for an attitude of self-defeat, as I could never be among either. As for law school, no matter how hard I worked during my second year, my first-year grades would remain indelible ~~ scars down the length of my face holding me back from allowing my potential as a lawyer to be seen. 
So, too, the self-defeat that dogged my gender transition. For years I used “real women” to refer to the overwhelmingly vast majority of women who were born in female bodies at birth. I insisted on using the phrase even though it tended to raise hackles within the transgender community, since the wording implies that I was not real but somehow “fake” instead. Mine was a perspective of convenience, explaining away my failures in relationships with men this way: much as self-effacement had 
shriveled my soul into the oblivion of sex addiction, now, too, I did not exist, I was not real. 
So there I was, before I had come into my own in my profession and in my body, feeling like an imposter in both. These two deficits fed each other in my mind. I cycled between self-pity over not having someone to love, believing that I was unlovable because of how I’d been born, and thinking that what I had to do to correct how I was born had deflected me from my studies and thus caused me to underperform at law school. My problems were caused by being transgender, or being transgender meant that I was doomed to have problems, or both. 
In this manner I became convinced that I was a second-class human being. Negativity bred itself like rabbits within me and trained my mind on blunders of the past rather than the now. I dwelled alone in my memories, which I bent to fit through the one-way door of pessimism that served as justification for being alone in the first place. This self-fulfilling prophecy nurtured itself on the venom of egotism ~~ just as believing that I was the best would have required being self-centered, so did believing that I was the worst. 
The only way out of this rut was to meditate on my paternal grandma. Of anyone I have ever met, she is one who appeared to be happiest with how her life turned out. 
My mom once asked her, “Grandma, what do you think the purpose of life is?” 
“Well, I’d say it’s to serve others,” my grandma said. 
She was the first person in my life who died. I was in fifth grade and she developed pancreatic cancer. When we were little, my brother and I used to go over to her house and spend the night on Fridays. She and my granddad would sit with us in the family room, as we lay on the comfy brown carpet with pillows and ate individually wrapped slices of American cheese and strawberry Cheerios, watching Wheel of Fortune and Jeopardy. She 
helped me grow my nails long and keep them pretty, even when I was ripping my hands to shreds as a competitive gymnast. 
Then one day my granddad’s armchair was removed from the corner of the room and a hospital bed was put in for my grandma. And then one day that corner was empty. 
I kept myself from crying at her funeral, partly because I wanted to be strong but also because I was afraid that people would see how sad I felt. It was not Grandma in that coffin. After months of illness she had turned yellow and frail; for burial the coroner had made her up to look healthier in death than she had been in life. Between the white satin interior and her right arm, which was bent at the elbow so that her hands clasped one another over her chest, I placed a little flower in a plastic box that I had gotten from Payless, the store around the corner I reached by taking a short cut down the alley behind our house and leaping over a large concrete wall. 
It would take years for me to begin to understand how serving others could give purpose to life. I have always heeded few warnings from others, having to learn mostly by doing rather than listening. Even though I have followed a profession based on language, words take on significance for me only once I have undergone the underlying experience myself. Until then the words are empty to me, though I have learned to store them in my mind until I have matured enough to comprehend their meaning. 
I had told the person who interviewed me at the District Attorney’s Office that I wanted to help others, yet the reality of the words coming out of my mouth would hit me only later on, months afterward. During that internship, I would soon enough be interviewing victims of crimes to find out what had happened to them. I thought I knew how to ask questions and be gentle, but did I? It would be another six or seven months before I was interviewed as a crime victim in that very office myself. 
* 
The summer of that internship was a happy time for me. I was 27 years old, I had made it through a chunk of my transition, and life was opening up like the flower that I had left at my grandmother’s side. I felt delighted to commute to the DA’s in the mornings for another day at the office. Working in the criminal justice system gave me the feeling that there was a point to my life after all. 
In addition to the first victim or witness interview that we conducted on our own, the first time that we stood up in court was the milestone that many of us waited for during our internship. 
Both prospects grated on my nerves before they happened. I was the only openly transgender person in the office at the time, so far as I knew, and I was still getting my sea legs as Zoe. During an interview, would a victim read me and become uncomfortable, or, worse yet, feel that I would harm their chances for justice? In court, would a judge or an adversary make an issue out of my gender, and would I then get derailed from whatever task I was working on? 
From my perspective, my gender identity was at the forefront of everything. Because I thought about it so much, I assumed that everyone else must be thinking about it too, much like the mind works in any adolescence. The truth is probably closer to this: no one cared. And, even if they did, they had other stuff to do, and more important things on their minds. 
For example, sooner or later I developed a crush on one of the other interns, a fair-skinned brown-haired man who was blessed with good facial bone structure and knew so. I’ll call him Ted. He was much more wholesome than I was accustomed to, but we only live once, so what the hell. I decided to flirt with him as soon as I got the chance. 
I worked in the School Advocacy Bureau (SAB) along with three other interns. One of them, whom I’ll call Sheila, had 
long black hair and was so beautiful that it was difficult for people to sputter out words to talk to her at first. But newness subsides. After a week or two, the four of us found time to talk and to get know one another; the SAB wasn’t exactly overrun with new cases while most students were on summer vacation. 
It did not take long for a group of interns from all around the Office to fall into the routine of going out for drinks on Thursday or Friday after work. Sometime during the first month, I pushed my comfort zone and tagged along, mostly because I figured Ted would be there, enjoying a drink and talking to people and knowing he was good-looking. 
We all went to the same bar where I would go with my mentor Mike Hueston years later after we lost the trial in the John F. Kennedy Airport bombing case. It’s a sports bar on Court Street frequented by lawyers who have just had a good day in court, or a bad one, or a combination of these extremes. 
I ordered seltzer water and sat there perched on a bar stool, sipping my drink and wondering why, no matter what I did, I never felt like I fit in at these types of activities. A few minutes later, Ted was at my side, striking up a conversation with me. I smiled and felt my eyes glimmer, as I leaned in closer to him, and then away, and then in again, ever so much, while we discussed where we were from, which law schools we went to, and what we were up to in our internships. 
“So, I wanted to ask,” he said, motioning his head in Sheila’s direction, “Is she taken?” 
“Yes,” I smiled, “I’m sorry.” 
I waited for the conversation to peter out, which it did in short order. And then I went home. 
* 
For the first half of the summer, home was a mattress on the living room floor at the apartment of my friend Lila, the director of High Life. We were in Bushwick, Brooklyn, not far 
from where we had thrown the Halloween party fundraiser five years before, and a block from the apartment building where I would be sexually assaulted seven months later. 
Before the assault cut me down a notch, I felt circumscribed only by the limitations that I perceived my transition imposing on me. I had discovered that, despite being a pre-op transgender, I could still go out and blend into my surroundings and let go and have fun. I have always loved dancing, so I studied Time Out New York until I found a series of regular options on the weekends, and on one or two weeknights as well. Since my transition had made me more comfortable in my skin and happier overall, I didn’t drink much anymore, which meant I could go out dancing as often as I wanted and feel even better in the morning, and so, I did. 
The second half of the summer I stayed in an apartment in the Village, which I subleased from my brother’s father-in-law. It was the most central location I have ever lived anywhere, and I used the time I gained from the convenience of the location for more dancing. 
One of my favorite parties was Basement Bhangra at SOB’s. I couldn’t afford the luxury of jetting off to India to go clubbing, and Basement Bhangra seemed like the next best thing. On the dance floor I could forget everything and pulse with the crowd of Indians and whoever else showed up for free Bhangra lessons and then stayed after the party got going. Those nights were the stuff of dreams for me. 
My own dreams were bounded by what I came to identify as The Cinderella Syndrome. Among the crowds of gyrating bodies at SOB’s, I could sink into the beat and movement around me. Men would come and go, drifting toward me and away, and sometimes closer and closer until we were dancing with our hips together. I enjoyed the heat of their breaths upon the skin over my collar bones, and the beads of sweat on the back of their 
necks as I ran my hands along their spines and floated up into the electricity of a kiss. 
Like Cinderella, though, I dreaded the point at which my coach would turn back into a pumpkin and my gown would disappear. I would have to tell a guy about my body sooner or later, and then the dream I was living would vanish into air. 
So most of the time I left without giving my number or even my name. 
There were one or two dance partners whom I liked enough to risk getting to know.  One became a chat buddy and we stayed in contact for a couple years before time moved both of us on. Another one, bless his heart, expressed willingness to get to know me intimately, that is, until I pushed him away. It was easier that way, especially since I was only in New York for the summer and would soon be going to the Netherlands anyway ~~ or at least that’s what I told myself to avoid the entanglement of human affection. 
* 
That fall, en route to Amsterdam, where I was going to study for a semester at Leiden University, I had a layover in Stockholm. Since I was entering the European Union at that point, I had to pass through customs and passport control. I had just received my first passport in my correct name, and it was blank inside. The officer stared me down, reminding me of the consular official at the Syrian Embassy in Egypt, only with bright blue eyes. 
Oh, no, I thought, there’s going to be a problem with the gender. I explained that Leiden University had a study abroad exchange program with my law school. 
“And you don’t have a visa?” 
When was the last time I needed a visa to enter a country in Europe? I couldn’t even remember. 
Another officer escorted me down into the bowels of 
the Stockholm Airport for questioning. He deposited me in a small room with no windows, somewhere underground I presumed. Presently, another came in and started questioning me. To this interrogating officer’s credit, he did not ask any questions about my gender, simply where I was from, where I was going, and why. 
He took my passport and said he’d be back in a bit. I had neither a watch nor a phone at that point and felt suspended in time and space until he returned. 
“Welcome to the European Union,” he said. And I was on my way. 
The plan was to stay in Amsterdam for a couple days and then go backpacking in Eastern Europe for a month before classes started. But I fell in love with the city, and two days turned into a week and a half. I bought a tent in an army supply store and set it up in a camping ground full of Europeans whose tents were much swankier than mine. It rained nearly every night; water collected on the ceiling of my tent so that it sagged within an inch of my head as I slept ~~ but I stayed dry. 
During the days I explored the city. I walked and walked and walked, whiling away time with every street and waterway until I knew my way around like the palm of my hand ~~ to the extent that I look at my hands, I look at the palms far more often than the backs, partly because I think the palms are more interesting, though more so because extremities tend to be parts of the body that testosterone affects the most, and irrevocably. 
Back at the camp, I made friends with a scraggly young Italian with uncombed hair, whom I’ll call Pasquale. He was in his early 20s and was visiting Amsterdam with two buddies ~~ for the pot and ‘shrooms, basically. As we were walking around one afternoon, he ended up kissing me in the middle of the street. I decided to talk to him about my past as soon as our lips parted. 
“What are you saying?” he said. 
I explained again, and then again. 
“I don’t understand,” he said. “You are both man and woman?” 
Several minutes later he said he had to think about things. We parted, since he was not particularly interested in my destination that day, Anne Frank’s house. I figured I’d seen the last of him. But that night he stuck his head inside my tent and peered down at me. 
“Are you sleeping?” he whispered. “Can I come in?” 
A few minutes into his visit, I happened to yawn. 
“You yawn like a boy,” he said. 
“How should I yawn?” I asked. 
I have yawned as he then taught me ever since. 
When the time to leave the camping ground finally came, I downsized to a backpack, left my luggage at the train station, and went off to Germany, Austria, Bosnia, Serbia, Hungary, and the Czech Republic. It was a special time for me because I was traveling as a female. I feared that I would not be able to pull it off so early on in my transition, or, if I did not blend in, ever again. What would I do if I could no longer see the world? 
Hogwash. I just needed to get over myself. 
Discovering that I could still enjoy travel despite my gender identity quickened my heart. One of the anxieties that had kept me from transitioning for so long was that I would lose the freedom to pursue my passions ~~ that my legs would be kicked out from under me and everything would somehow be taken away once I was relegated to the status of a pariah. 
I was also concerned that I would lose the moments of connection with other human beings in various countries that I had experienced when living as a gay male. Previously, no matter where I went, there was a gay community that I could find and be a part of, even if only for an instant. 
Now I was just a normal heterosexual person, albeit a 
pre-op transsexual one. 
As usual, none of my fears came to pass. To the contrary, just as I had been surprised by Pasquale in Amsterdam, the experiences I stumbled into in the other countries on that trip were warm and lovely. Once, in Hungary, I noticed a young man staring at me and smiling as we waited for a bus and boarded. He took the seat next to mine; soon we were talking. 
My curiosity got the better of me and I lobbed my grenade. 
“Really?” he said. “You’re a TS?” 
I nodded, wondering how long it would take for him to spring up and find another seat. 
“That’s interesting,” he said, leaning toward me. “Can I kiss you?” 
I smiled. 
The Hungarian had caught me early on, before being an experiment for men had hardened my soul. My heart was still open. 
* 
I returned to the Netherlands with a bounce in my step. Seeing new places in the world always lightened my blood, plus, now I had been on a journey that taught me I could indeed go anywhere and do anything I fancied, just like before. Only now I did not have to feel ashamed of my past or try to hide myself from others. It was liberation. 
True to Dutch form, the university student housing was a two-story brick affair with a collection of attics around a courtyard where the groundskeeper lived in a small house draped in ivy. My room overlooked a canal. On one side there was a building with assisted living for elder people; on the other, a cemetery. I found living wedged in this existential crisis very suitable to my tastes. 
Classes started up, as did parties and activities for foreign 
students. In Europe, law is an undergraduate degree, so the crowd was fledgling, unlike the range of students of all ages back home in the States. At 27, I was barely youthful enough to get away with going to some of the functions; but my backpacking trip had emboldened me, so I threw all caution to the wind to see what would happen. My curiosity was probably more loneliness and the desire to connect than anything else. 
At one of the first get-togethers, I recognized a young Italian man from my European Union law class. Out of a room with about 200 students, he was far and away the hottest one. But I forgot him as soon as I saw him: already I’d trained myself to avoid thinking about so extraordinary a man, let alone daydreaming of him. For I knew that the Cinderella moment with such a fantasy would be all the more unendurable, painful in inverse proportion to beauty, so it was simpler to twist the tourniquet on any feelings before they bubbled to the surface. 
The Italian, whom I’ll call Adriano, stared across the room, straight at me, the whole evening. I tried to ignore what was happening, to no avail. I could not sustain conversation with whomever I was talking to. After a few minutes that felt as protracted as hours, I got up to leave; but my best intentions were intercepted, and, the next thing I knew, I was in a conversation with him, trying to catch the breath he was taking away. 
Adriano was tall and broad-shouldered, with curly dark brown hair and clear golden brown eyes. He spoke fluent English with a slight Italian accent. He had recently decided on law as an undergraduate major, a decision that, he told me, his professors hailed with joy. He had the opportunity to come check out the Netherlands and thought he’d take the adventure north to broaden his mind. Basically, he was perfect. 
And, it turns out, he had been waiting to talk to me for weeks. He lived in the same student housing in between old age and death, and had seen me coming and going through the 
courtyard. 
“I was going to leave you a note,” he said, “but I wasn’t sure which mailbox was yours.” 
Terrified that this exchange might lead somewhere, I said goodbye and vanished. 
The following afternoon, I was walking across the courtyard with my laundry, when there he was, having materialized sitting behind a window downstairs. 
“Come here,” he said, curling his finger back and forth. 
We chatted a bit ~~ he said he was just hanging out and “munching” on peanuts, which prompted me to wonder how many Americans would know the word for munching in any language other than English ~~ and then it came: “What are you doing tonight?” 
“I’m going to Amsterdam,” I said 
“Hmm. Can I come?” 
That night we rode my bike to the train station. He insisted on pedaling, and I sat on the metal storage rack over the back wheel. It was September in Northern Europe, and so the day had grown dark and even a little chilly by the time we departed. Leiden was quiet and the canals twinkled with reflections of lights from the streets and houses nearby. I lay my cheek on his shoulder blade, closed my eyes, felt the muscles of his back move as he stood up to pedal over a bridge, and tried to savor a moment from fiction, it seemed. 
In Amsterdam we went to a bar that I’d discovered, which had a wide cushioned bench hidden in the back. It wasn’t long before we were lying next to one another and making out. 
Overhead, an exposed light bulb shone and threatened to douse the mood, so I stood on the bench, leaned over the doorway, and unscrewed it. 
“Hard movements,” Adriano said. “Sometimes the way you move is…a little hard.” 
Like a yawn, I thought. They notice the details, these guys, they’re always watching every little thing. 
Outside, on the way back to the train station, we saw a man stumbling down the street toward us. His eyelids were parted wide and his irises reflected the streetlights like glass. He stepped down into the gutter, as though he hadn’t even seen it. And then he turned around: his head had an open wound; his skull was cracked slightly and some of his brain was exposed. 
During the train ride back to Leiden, I kept turning away from Adriano to stare through the window at the nighttime outside. He was trying to hold my hand, and sometimes I let him, then I would withdraw. 
The bike ride back to our student housing was not the same as before for me. I am not sure how I knew what was going to happen, why he would be different from the other Italian or the Hungarian, but I did. I often say that I never know how a man is going to react to a discussion about my past, and it’s always true at the beginning, I never do. Yet at some point I will have an intuition, I will sense it, and I will know. 
Adriano was all over me the moment we stepped in the door. My heart came apart a little as I placed my palms on his chest and drew away. 
“I have something to tell you,” I said. “Can we just sit down for a minute?” 
We sat on the edge of my bed, a miserable excuse of springs and plastic that only a college dorm room can get away with. He took my hands in his and looked at me with such earnestness that I struggled to speak. 
“What’s wrong? Are you on your period? It doesn’t bother me, really.” 
I laughed. 
“Really.” 
I lifted my hand to his cheek and smiled. 
“No,” I said, “it’s very different from that.” 
After I told him, he bolted up and looked down at me in rage. 
“You’re a man?!” 
“No, I’m trying to explain ~~” 
He tightened his fists. I thought he was going to hit me. 
But he didn’t. He just turned around and left. 
* 
I cried myself to sleep that night. The tears came partly because of what had just happened, and mostly because of what had been confirmed: yes, I would get to be Cinderella for an evening, just as I had dreamed, and not only that, the dream could even come true with a dashing young Italian man who was the cutest one in a room of so many others. Indeed the experience was beyond anything I had dared to imagine. 
But greediness would spell the end. Sure enough, I had stayed past midnight to dance a little longer with Adriano, which I should never have done. I knew I was hazarding my emotions; in so doing I had lost track of the ground while soaring through the sky. It was glorious, until everything fell apart. My gown had turned to rags, and I was covered in soot. 
I would stay in the Netherlands for another three months, go dancing in Amsterdam on the weekends and meet a really incredible Dutch man whose life seemed to be guarded by jinn. This kindred soul and I would talk on the phone nightly and become friends. At a club where we danced he would bend down to kiss me smelling of garlic, which he had consumed to fend off a cold. And one night he would tell me that I had feminine hands, thereby erasing my discomfort with looking down at them ever again. 
All of that would happen, and more, for it was only the beginning, I knew. But nothing would be the same again, not now that I had gone along with a fantasy to realization with Adriano. 
Life had changed. I had just gotten lucky for a moment in time, luckier than ever before, and now my luck was up. 
* 
The disappointment I felt had a silver lining: what more did I need to believe I would be able to participate in society like everyone else!! Yet that same silver lining delineated limits to happiness, the only ones that mattered in the end ~~ the contours of love. I had learned that, as close as I might come, to all appearances the same, I would never be quite like others. 
In the coming years, the impacts of this lesson have been apparent nowhere more than in dating and my relationships with men. But crevices in interactions with friends and colleagues, and in my professional life, have also appeared from time to time. All I ever wanted was to fit in. Now, after Adriano, I knew that however much I longed for normalcy, I would always carry a kernel of sadness within me, and the only way to live would be to accept that reality, and go on. 
I returned to New York and found the room in Bushwick, Brooklyn, with the husband-and-wife roommates. The neighborhood had gentrified since the Halloween party fundraiser for High Life, but it was still affordable enough for a law student with roommates. I ensconced myself for the winter, looking forward to the externship with a federal magistrate judge in Manhattan that was due to start in a couple weeks. My Hastings mentor Professor Marsha Cohen ran the externship program, which required students to take a co-requisite; I’d be doing mine at New York Law School, near the federal courthouse, which meant meeting more people. 
I was looking forward to getting started with the rest of my life. Being busy would feel good. 
Time had passed since the disappointment with Adriano in the Netherlands, which was an ocean away anyway. I felt stronger and happier, and I decided to start dating again right 
away. 
Was it cold on January 10, 2005? I don’t remember. I don’t recall anything in particular except what happened that night, in my apartment, where my assailant and I were alone because my roommates were out. 
There was a problem. I sensed it as we sat there and he drank a beer in one gulp. I knew it when I asked him to leave, and he did not. I didn’t know how to solve it as I opened the door to ask again, and he grabbed my hand and pulled me away. 
And I was terrified when he held me in a headlock and whispered, “You know what I want. Give it to me or I’m going to kill you.” 
I could not speak because his forearm was choking my throat. I have no idea how I was able to think, but I realized that if I nodded he might loosen his grip and I could slip free and run out into the hall. 
Which is what I did. 
I ran down the stairs screaming for help. I was naked. It was cold and I was afraid of going outside and getting locked out. He began to lumber down the stairs after me, and I screamed louder. 
I reached the second floor. A door cracked ever so much, and then swung open all the way. A man I had never met before was standing there with a baseball bat. 
“Please help me,” I said, doing my best to cover my private parts with my hands, as my assailant came down the stairs. “I live upstairs, please help me.” 
My assailant walked up to the man with a bat and extended his hand.  
“It’s cool,” my assailant said to the man with the bat. “Everything cool?” 
The man widened his eyes and raised the bat above his head. My assailant stood there for a moment, and then left. 
Back in the apartment, I sat in the dark with the phone in my hand. I had just hung up from a call with a rape hotline. 
“Oh, Honey, if you don’t report him, he’s just going to do it to another woman, and another,” the voice on the other line had said. 
I knew she was right but I was concerned about taking the step of reporting him. Memories of working at the DA’s Office the summer before were at the surface of my thoughts, and I knew that, if ever there were a trial, the defense attorney might exploit my gender identity, and maybe a juror or two would simply vote to acquit out of disapproval. 
Then he called. 
“Let’s finished what we started,” his voicemail said. “You know what I’m talking about.” 
I couldn’t live with myself if he got away with doing what he had done to me just to do it again to another woman, perhaps one who could not get away. I steeled myself and dialed 911.  
3. 
 
May 1, 2008. The East Village, New York City ~~ my first day as a solo practitioner. I had jumped off a cliff without knowing what was down below, falling through the fog and darkness like in Alfred Hitchcock’s Rebecca. But sure enough I landed in water. As time went on, I would find out that the water was filled with sharks. Eventually I would learn to swim alongside them, and to enjoy the exercise. 
Less than three-and-a-half years before, in the weeks following the sexual assault in January 2005, the idea of opening my own practice as a federal trial lawyer would have seemed incomprehensible to me. The immediate need back then was to find a new place to live, as I could not stay in an apartment that my assailant knew about. 
The night of the assault, a police detective visited me in the hospital, where I had been taken after the police arrived at my apartment. It was after midnight, and I had been put in a private portion of the emergency room. I did not want to be there, but I did not want to go home, either. I tried to talk to a nurse who was supervising me, however, she suggested that the attack was my fault because I am a transgender person and needed to be more careful. So I just waited for the detective on my case to arrive. 
At first I did not know whether I would want to press charges, and I resisted the detective’s questions. She explained that she needed answers while they were fresh in my mind, so I complied and told her everything. 
I have forgotten how I got home that night. But I do I remember that an officer was with me, and woke my roommates up with his flashlight as he checked the apartment for my assailant. And I remember the black smudge marks from fingerprints that the police had tried to lift off of the beer bottle, still on the table where my assailant had left it; for some reason, the smudge marks 
were all over the kitchen counter and the bathroom too. Tears welled up in my eyes ~~ my roommates had come home to a mess, and I felt embarrassed. 
The following day I moved out and stayed with my brother and his future wife. They were sensitive enough to avoid asking any questions, except for once, when they heard me crying in the shower. I had tried to keep my struggle to myself for the most part, but I fell apart when I saw clumps of hair swirling into the drain. The roots must have loosened on my scalp when my assailant had grabbed my hair and yanked me around. 
Partly because I had injuries on my face, and mostly because I thought I should, I decided to postpone the start date of my judicial externship. Then I contacted the landlord of the first apartment where I lived in New York and rented an apartment in the sister building next door. It was in the back with bars on the windows, which previously would have depressed me but now made me feel safe. Life was a question, at that point, of putting one foot in front of the other. 
I painted my new, tiny apartment in lavender and blue, in hopes that the colors would be soothing, and I put an ad up online for a roommate. The available room was a typical New York bedroom in the East Village, hardly bigger than a closet. The only respondent interested was male, which horrified me. The problem was that I needed the help in rent, especially after moving expenses. 
Ever since the assault, I had developed a fear of being alone with a man or being too close to one at all, even in public. The subway was the hardest part. I sometimes had to step off crowded trains because being pressed up against a man brought me to a sweat and made me lose my sense of balance. In the first few weeks, the sound of an unknown man’s voice from behind made me jump. 
The roommate situation presented a quandary. On the 
one hand, the one guy who wanted the place appeared to be trustworthy, and maybe the experience of living together would be therapeutic. On the other, my fragility kept me on edge, and I was apprehensive of him for no reason other than his gender. Whatever the case might have been, I had lost confidence in my own judgment and I wrangled with a decision. 
In the end, I offered him the room. The deciding factor was the very faith in humanity that I refused to let the assault take from me. I hoped my new roommate would be more like the stranger in the hall with the baseball bat than my assailant, if it came down to it. Fortunately he was a good guy, and we co-existed in about 350 square feet. 
Outside those walls, the judicial externship would become my solace. On the first day I arrived in Chambers, United States Magistrate Judge James C. Francis, IV, sat down with me and we chatted for a few minutes. Then he reached under the table and took out a box of documents. It was a habeas corpus petition, and I was to let him know when I had an outline for the court’s decision. 
I had heard the words “habeas corpus petition” before ~~ and there was the extent of my knowledge on the subject. Of course every journey begins with a step, and the destination is unknowable. Four years later, I would be assigned to represent a death-sentenced inmate in federal habeas corpus proceedings in Texas. And a couple years after that case I would be assigned to serve as counsel in another habeas matter for a client who had been convicted of a racketeering conspiracy encompassing a number of murders in a case that New York Magazine referred to as “the worst scandal in the history of the New York Police Department.” 
But, for the moment, I sat there in Chambers staring down at the pile of documents in front of me. I was seated at a table in the Judge’s library, which would be shared by several other 
interns that semester. My externship was full-time, so I was there throughout the day while the others would come and go. I was the only one there that first morning, and, in the library quieted by wooden bookshelves and thick carpets within the tower of marble that comprised the federal courthouse at 500 Pearl Street, there was not a sound except the rustle of paper as I turned the pages of the petition. 
The petitioner was Henry Ramirez. As the opinion I wrote for the court recounted, Mr. Ramirez had been convicted for assault, reckless endangerment, and criminal possession of a weapon after a jury trial in the Bronx: 
 
At some time late on the night of August 16, 1996 and early the next morning, Mr. Ramirez and several of his acquaintances, including Danny Hernandez and Peter Collins, decided to retaliate against an individual known as “E-Man” for a previous incident. On instruction from Mr. Hernandez, the petitioner retrieved a .38 caliber revolver from a nearby building, and then walked on the opposite side of the street from his acquaintances toward a store near the corner of 172nd Street and the Grand Concourse in the Bronx. Mr. Ramirez’s acquaintances lost sight of him when they stopped at an apartment to retrieve another gun. 
Mr. Hernandez led the group toward a crowd gathered on the sidewalk in front of the store. The crowd included E-Man, Keith Williams, Rajab Asep, Leo Watson, Andre Little, and Dietrich Little. Mr. Hernandez confronted E-Man, and when E-Man fled, Mr. Hernandez chased him. Several shots rang out. Detective Edward McDonald commenced an investigation of the shootings on the morning of August 17, 1996. He first interviewed the petitioner on August 
19, 1996, after informing him of his Miranda rights. At that time the petitioner was not viewed as a suspect and was not arrested. Then, on the morning of August 22, 1996, Detective McDonald called the petitioner at home and asked him to come to the precinct to view a lineup. By approximately 3:00 that afternoon, the detective had received information that led him to view the petitioner as a suspect. He therefore reissued Mr. Ramirez his Miranda rights. The petitioner stated that he understood his rights and agreed to answer questions. Approximately one hour later, Detective Steven Rodriguez began questioning the petitioner. First, he confirmed with Mr. Ramirez that he had been informed of his Miranda rights and understood them. However, he did not himself read Mr. Ramirez his rights. After discussing the facts of the case with Mr. Ramirez, Detective Rodriguez asked him if he would agree to write out a statement. The petitioner declined, and instead asked that Detective Rodriguez write out the statement for him. At the conclusion of the interview, Detective Rodriguez presented what he had written to Mr. Ramirez, who reviewed the two-page statement which was written in English and made various corrections. However, Mr. Ramirez refused to sign the statement. Accordingly, Detective Rodriguez wrote the word “REFUSED” on each page of the statement and signed it himself. 
In the statement to Detective Rodriguez, the petitioner stated that early in the morning on August 17, 1996, he obtained a black .38 caliber gun and walked to the corner of East 172nd Street. He explained that when he heard gun shots he ran to his acquaintances at the store on the Grand Concourse. There, he “shot wild” at 
a black man who was running towards him. The petitioner admitted that he could see that “the black man” was not holding a gun. 
Running down the street, Keith Williams and Rajab Asep soon realized they had been shot. Meanwhile, Leo Watson watched “a kid” running and shooting “at anybody he seen.” This person ran by Mr. Watson, shot him in the face, and fled. After the gunfire ceased, Andre Little saw Dietrich Little collapse in the street. Andre rushed to Dietrich, who was shaking and bleeding.  
* 
Would I be able to work with a petition involving these facts so soon after the sexual assault, when bruises left by my assailant had yet to fade? Or would references to violence and aggression sicken me beyond impartiality? 
Even if such material spun my emotions on a merry-go-round of flashbacks, there was yet another possibility to consider: blacksmithing the soul. Could it be that working with fire would give warmth to soothe my injuries as they healed? 
The remove of intellectuality, where the wellspring of curiosity signified that there was life ahead despite my inability to see it, opened up space between the days I spent thinking in Chambers and the nightmare in Bushwick that had driven a nail into my soul. Throughout my life I had turned to books for sustenance when solitude starved me. Literature is a mirror, and the reflection it offers gives perspective. The only difference with the stories in cases is that they are real. 
At least, the truth-seeking process of justice says so. 
Mr. Ramirez, proceeding pro se, raised several arguments in his habeas petition: (1) the trial court improperly admitted notes from his interrogation and evidence of his refusal to sign those notes; (2) the trial court improperly declined Mr. 
Ramirez’s request to charge the jury with the defense of justification; (3) the assistant district attorney acted improperly by misrepresenting the governing law and bolstering witness testimony; and (4) Mr. Ramirez’s counsel on appeal failed to provide effective assistance of counsel. 
Habeas corpus is Latin for “you may have the body,” and the full legal term for the submission that gets the proceedings going is a “petition for a writ of habeas corpus.” A writ is a court order, and habeas writs have been called the “great writ” ~~ indeed, the procedure gives a court the power to release a prisoner who is held in captivity by the state. President Abraham Lincoln used suspension of the writ during the Civil War as a tool against the Confederacy. This action led to litigation in which the Chief Justice of the United States issued a ruling that Lincoln lacked the authority to suspend the writ, a ruling that Lincoln ignored. 
Federal courts see too many habeas corpus petitions to count. These proceedings are the last breath of life for any criminal case in which the defendant seeks to challenge or overturn a conviction, regardless of whether the underlying case was in state or federal court. Federal habeas corpus petitions follow everything else ~~ beginning with a trial followed by a direct appeal and a petition for certiorari in the Supreme Court of the United States ~~ and, where the underlying matter is a state case, there has often been a state habeas corpus petition and appeal on that petition as well. 
In other words, by the time a case reaches federal court as a habeas corpus petition, it has already been reviewed by courts multiple times. 
So habeas petitions are not a favored activity. Yet, they do succeed once in a while, including in a few key decisions by the Supreme Court in death penalty cases during the first decade of the 21st Century. Nevertheless, the proliferation of habeas cases led Congress to pass the Anti-Terrorism and Effective Death 
Penalty Act (AEDPA), the intent of which was to suppress habeas litigation by creating so many procedural hurdles that federal courts may never reach the merits of a claim. Consistent with the law of unintended consequences, however, AEDPA has created a labyrinth of procedural law that confounds judicial interns and law clerks who walk into Chambers to meet a box of papers as I did. 
The main hurdle in any federal habeas case is the deference to state court decisions that AEDPA purports to apply. In the Ramirez opinion, the first footnote discusses these procedural hurdles and then states, “[S]ince each of the petitioner’s claims fails under the less deferential pre-AEDPA standard, there is no need to conduct the AEDPA’s more intricate analysis.” 
So, in the end, despite the obstacle to judicial review that Congress had set up, Mr. Ramirez’s claims made it to the light of day ~~ even though the glare of the law dried them up. 
But there is also another footnote worth noting: “The petitioner’s sentence may indeed be subject to challenge, but not on the grounds presented. It appears that the minimum time to be served on the weapon possession count should not have exceeded one-third of the maximum, or five years; the minimum actually imposed was seven and one-half years. . . . However, no such claim was ever raised at any time in the state court proceedings or in the instant petition and therefore cannot be further addressed.” 
In between the lines of these footnotes is how I began to learn the skill of lawyering. I had never used “lawyer” as a verb before, until I fell in love with the artistry of analysis ~~ a ballet of logic, the performance of which dances over years spent in practice. 
The next case I worked came before the Judge on a motion to dismiss for failure to state a claim in a civil suit. As opposed to criminal law, the zone of civil procedure made me feel 
uncomfortable at first. Of all the classes I bombed during my first semester in law school, civil procedure was the worst. I did not even recognize myself in the grade I received in that class, which was taught by a professor named Rick Marcus who sometimes talked about a bus accident he’d been in while traveling in Afghanistan when he was younger. 
Standing behind the podium at the head of the classroom, Professor Marcus kept a list from which he would select two or three students to drill to a pulp with the Socratic method each class. It was old-school law teaching that made me think of The Paper Chase, a 1970s movie about a young man in his first year at Harvard Law School, who vomits in the bathroom after being humiliated through the Socratic method during his first Contracts class. The one consolation was that, once chosen from Professor Marcus’s list, we were safe for the remainder of the semester. 
As soon as we returned from winter break, Professor Marcus told us about a class that he himself had been in across the Bay over at Boalt, UC Berkeley’s School of Law. The first class of his second semester there, one of his professors had called on a student who then proceeded to sputter all the way through a line of Socratic questioning. The student was a quiet person and had gone unnoticed all through the first semester. As it turned out, the professor had called on this student first because he had earned the highest grade in the class on the previous final. 
My own first semester with Professor Marcus culminated in the lowest grade of anyone in the class. In the wake of that ignominy, I studied extra hard and attended every class the second semester, waiting to be called on so that I could redeem myself. But the chance never arose. I wondered whether Professor Marcus had taken pity on me, or he simply did not want to waste time by calling on such a dimwit. 
The following year, however, one of my friends 
commented on the answers I had given Professor Marcus when he had called on me the first semester ~~ to this day I recall that, at one point, I said the court in the case we read for that day did a “180” in its own decision. My friend remarked that I sounded as though I knew what I was talking about: “I was like, how does she know that?” she said of me. 
I just stared at her without blinking. I said nothing about my grade; it was still too early on in my recuperation. 
* 
There was no point in carrying all that baggage around during my externship with the Judge. I arrived early, often being the first in Chambers, and I sat at the computer pulling up case after case all day long and researching each issue into the ground. A college professor of mine used to say that we know we have found something we love when we lose track of time while doing it. And so it was for me ~~ I found myself looking at the clock late at night and realizing that I had forgotten to eat. 
Sooner or later I had an opinion on the motion to dismiss ready, though with this case there was a discussion with the Judge over the course of a couple days. Later on, after the externship had concluded, Professor Cohen sent me the Judge’s evaluations of my performance. They were so positive that, after my first year of law school, I had to read them several times to believe what they said. And, sure enough, the Judge had noted our discussions on the motion to dismiss. 
The next case involved the propriety of service of process in Indonesia. Service of process is the service of papers in a legal action so that the parties are on notice and the action may proceed. Indonesia is a civil law country, with different rules for service of process than we have in our common law system in the United States. Who knew that service of process in Indonesia would be an issue to argue about? And who knew that districts courts around the country would have differing views on such a 
question? 
I was a pig in shit. My research on this arcane issue led past anything in the online research databases and across the street into the law library over at 40 Foley Street, the magnificent old federal courthouse where then-Judge Thurgood Marshall had his Chambers. Years later, I would wax passionate over the question of service of process in Indonesia during a job interview in Cairo. Years after that, I would find myself in the Chambers of Judge Denny Chin ~~ the same Chambers which had once been Judge Marshall’s ~~ while working with a team on a continuing legal education presentation about the Pentagon Papers case, an event which caused me to miss a flight to Los Angeles because of a snowstorm. 
The fourth decision I worked as a judicial extern was a motion for summary judgment, which involves deciding whether a case should be tossed out because there is no triable issue of fact and a party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law, basically allowing the judge to decide the case instead of a jury. And the fifth and final decision was a quickie motion to amend a complaint to include an additional defendant. 
I wanted to stay longer and work some more on the motion to amend decision to get the thing right. But the time had come to finish up the externship and start studying for the New York Bar Exam. 
Meanwhile, I had started to dip a toe into the deep, dark, and unfathomable sea of dating. Recovering from the sexual assault to the point where I could be touched by a man without recoiling has taken time, and I still work on opening up to this day. As a human I seek connections and intimacy, yet, especially in those first few months after the assault, I withdrew back into my shell just as soon as I peeked out. Dating is savage anywhere, and the intensity of the New York State of Mind only magnified the distance I felt between myself and others. 
At some point that spring a young investment banker who lived in Murray Hill came into the picture. We met online, and he made it a point to write, in his profile and our initial e-mail exchange, that he had graduated from Harvard with a degree in economics and was now working for a hedge fund. 
He was curious about meeting a transsexual, he said, which made me leery. From experience I knew that such curiosity was often nothing more, and that meeting someone with this agenda would more likely than not end up hurting my feelings. 
But he was cute and I felt it was time to start venturing out. Plus, I convinced myself that he was smart, so he would also be considerate of others, since one component of intelligence, in my view, involves accepting that the social contract is based on treating others as we would like to be treated ourselves. 
He was gentleman enough to meet in a public place, as I requested. We sat down at a coffeehouse or burrito joint or something on Lexington Avenue and started talking. 
I asked questions to learn more about him, including why he was interested in meeting me. He replied that a lot of guys fantasize about being with a hot pre-op transsexual ~~ someone who is feminine, soft and beautiful, but also anatomically male.  
He looked me straight in the eyes and said, “I guess that fantasy doesn’t exist in reality.” 
I stood up and left before he could see my disappointment. So much for placing stock in intelligence. Kindness is what mattered. I would have to be more careful in avoiding these encounters if I wanted to preserve my spirit. 
* 
Did my professional and personal lives have to diverge, or did I choose it so? For the next few years the divide between my two selves widened, as I slipped into believing that my existence hung on approval from men such as the investment banker from Murray Hill, men for whom I was not real. The 
disillusionment involved in asking for the impossible turned me inside out: on the one hand, there was my identity as a lawyer, which grew from love of the law, and passion; on the other, there was the exoskeleton of callousness that I developed to protect my emotions from the elements of the world, or at least the only experience of the world that I believed I could have. 
The externship had given me work to concentrate on, and I embraced the opportunity to think about other people and their lives as seen through the lens of a case. Parties before the court sought vindication for legal claims ~~ and the law presented a framework for addressing them. Even if the process seemed more like an ivory wall to scale than anything else, it was nevertheless a thing of beauty to apply rules and authorities to situations that needed to be resolved. While I wished that I had the same tools for myself, I took refuge in seeing things outside me make sense. 
Inside I froze to ice. Shortly after the assault, a therapist suggested that I try to participate in normal activities as much as I could; so, without thinking, the week after the assault I showed up for a routine physical at my doctor’s office at the LGBT medical center Callen-Lorde in Chelsea. When my doctor put her hands on my left breast to give me an exam, my body tensed up and I cried ~~ at that moment I knew that I had changed, and nothing would ever be quite like it was before. 
Thawing would take time, so I gave myself to the jealous mistress of the law. At least she was always there. 
Studying for the New York bar exam was a task that I would not will on anyone, except someone who thinks lawyers charge too much. I signed up for a program given by the bar review course provider Barbri, which involved daily review sessions during the week and a seemingly endless stack of books and outlines to review otherwise. Every morning, hundreds of us assembled at The Town Hall on 43rd Street in Midtown. A couple 
years later, while I was working as a minion on a gargantuan antitrust case, I went to a concert by Regina Spector at The Town Hall and thought back on that summer of bar exam prep, just as I do every time I walk up Sixth Avenue past 43rd Street, to this day. 
The scope of the material was overwhelming at first. To pass, we needed to relearn a spate of 19 areas of the law. In 2005, they were: Contracts, Constitutional Law, Criminal Law, Evidence, Real Property, Torts, Business Relationships, Conflict of Laws, New York Constitutional Law, Criminal Procedure, Family Law, Remedies, New York and Federal Civil Jurisdiction and Procedure, Professional Responsibility, Trusts, Wills and Estates, and Uniform Commercial Code Articles Two, Three, and Nine. 
Each subject had provided fodder for at least a one-semester class in law school, and sometimes, as with Professor Marcus, there was enough for two. My goal, over the following eight weeks, would be to synthesize information packed into every sentence of hundreds of pages of subject outlines into a summary that fit on a single piece of paper. If I could achieve that degree of synthesis, I believed, I would understand the material. 
And so it began. I woke up at 5:00 a.m. and reached for my Barbri books, which I read over my morning coffee until it was time to do yoga and go for a run. After breakfast, as I read while I ate, I rode my bike up to The Town Hall, often arriving drenched in sweat from the New York summer. 
Creatures of habit, most of us chose a seat in the audience on the first day and then sat there for the rest of the course. One of the people I sat close to was a cute Greek-American whom I’ll call Alex. 
Following review sessions at The Town Hall, it was back downtown to eat lunch and spend the afternoon reviewing whatever we’d covered that morning. In the evenings it was 
dinner, as I read while I ate, and then tea, as I incorporated everything from the day into the outlines of everything else so far ~~ and then more review, until my eyes closed from their own weight. 
Those of us studying for the bar exam around the city recognized each other by the big green Barbri books that we were always lugging around. I took mine to the Laundromat where I forgot clothes in the washer because I was reading, the dog run where my recently adopted dog Basil exercised as I read, the park where I read under the trees, and anywhere I knew I might be waiting for any length of time at all, like the subway or in line at the supermarket. I read in the kitchen, in the bathroom and in the bedroom, and I read on the fire escape when I couldn’t stand being within four walls anymore. 
I probably could have let off the gas pedal ever so much, or at least found more time for myself. But I wanted to pass that damn exam, and my flop during the first year of law school was emblazoned in my mind as an example of failure. 
Other than exercising, I took breaks by talking to people at the dog run, and going on dates, provided, of course, that the guy was willing to schlep down to my neighborhood so I could read outlines right up to the last minute. Although the ice walls around my heart had yet to melt, at least now the sun of hope had come out and I could begin to see through them. By that summer, I had reached the point where I could sit across the dinner table with a man again. As time went on, I even allowed myself to be kissed, and to feel the warmth of communicating physically with another human being. 
* 
One of the men I met that summer was a talkative Indian guy working on his Ph.D., whom I’ll call Arjun. He managed to be both compact and lanky at the same time, and had a thing for transgender women. Arjun and I hung out for a couple months 
before things fizzled out. Four years later, I encountered him in Houston, Texas, where I stayed for a few weeks while working on an investigation in a death penalty case that I will talk about later. He would tell me then, in Houston, as he has told me periodically since, that I was a special person in his life, and he remembers me fondly. 
The smile Arjun brings to my lips originates in my mind. As I recovered from the assault, my feelings, along with turning cold, had migrated from the realm of the heart to the confines of the intellect. Emotions were safer in the form of thought, which used logic as a shield against brutality in the world. It would be some time yet before I would be able to warm up with affection for someone, let alone fall in love, but the pilot light was still sputtering, way way way down. 
Arjun was, I think, the first man I felt comfortable going to bed with since the assault. For the first time in half a year, I did not believe that a man I was alone with was going to harm me simply because he was a man. Nor did I feel that I was physically in danger when we were together, though the fear still lingered. Men represented the threat of harm, if not harm itself, but Arjun was different. 
Plus, I just wanted to start getting over my fears, on the off-chance that not every male on the planet was a monster. It was going to take practice to become myself once more, like transitioning all over again. 
A guy who lived on my block had been flirting with me for a couple months, and I determined to take a leap of faith and flirt back. One day we ran into each other right after I had been at an electrolysis session. (In case you haven’t had the pleasure, electrolysis is the process of inserting needles into facial hair follicles, shocking them, and then ripping the hair out with tweezers.) I fucking hate electrolysis. 
Dammit, I thought, we’re running into each other and my chin 
and upper lip are all puffy and red. 
“Why are you talking to me from behind your hand?” he asked. 
“I have a skin thing going on right now.” 
“I can’t see anything. You look cute.” 
Cute?! I had no make-up on and I was wearing cargo pants and a t-shirt. How rad: as of that day, I stopped fussing over my face before leaving the house, and went out into the world however I felt. Looking like a tomboy more often than not, I was happy to have journeyed full-circle on the gender spectrum to reach a point where I was myself. 
No longer did I feel compelled to impose mascara over my white eyelashes, which I’d loved ever since that day in college when I discovered they’d changed. Why would I want to hide that feature anymore, when variation is what makes us beautiful? 
* 
Back at The Town Hall, I basked in the joy of self-discovery, threw all caution to the wind, and flirted with Alex. It was fun, until one day he said he did not believe gay people should be able to get married. The next day I relocated from my seat near him to the upstairs seating, where I stayed for the rest of the course. He eventually came to find me; I just gave him the cold shoulder, lacking enough fortitude back then to disclose my own past and make a point. 
In between study sessions, I started making plans for sex change surgery. I spent hours upon hours over the next few months researching surgeons all over the world. I corresponded with other women who had been through the procedure recently enough to have feedback that would help in the decision. And I conscripted male friends into examining the pictures of results on surgeons’ websites in an attempt to evaluate aesthetics. 
“Why bother?” a friend of mine asked when I told her what I was up to. “It’s not like they have any idea what they’re 
looking for anyway.” 
I just wanted everything to be right. 
You see, I had waited so long to have surgery due to fears that something would go wrong. Although the surgery is relatively straightforward, morbidity (infection or disease) and mortality (death) are risks inherent to any surgical procedure. Worse yet, I feared that my surgery would somehow get botched, leaving me with a result that would turn me into a sexless creature and repel men forever, as I descended into a life of isolation as a pariah. The misery!! 
Not that I was overdramatic or anything. 
Yet I also felt anxious about losing a characteristic that made me unique. After all, I was not repugnant to everyone. 
Arjun was one of many men I had met in the years since my transition who were willing to date and get to know me, even though my body was not completely as it should be. In contrast to the conversation with the investment banker in Murray Hill, which still smarted, and the fallout with Adriano, which had plunged me into despair in the Netherlands for three months straight, there were also the kisses from the shaggy Italian in the streets of Amsterdam and the Hungarian on the bus ~~ and all the other interactions I’d been lucky enough to experience along the way. 
These memories combined with my apprehensions about surgery. So, I was determined to see whether there was any possibility that I could live with my body as it was, without going under the knife. 
Similar to The Cinderella Syndrome, which helped me understand my experience of intimacy as a transgender person, I told myself that, in not having surgery, I got to be like a unicorn ~~ a creature whose beauty depends on its own legend. It is because unicorns do not exist, I thought, that they are so captivating in myth. Perhaps I could find solace in this metaphor, 
clumsy as it was, as a way to accept the transience of dating men who, I knew, would eventually move on and marry a “real woman.” 
Eventually I met another investment banker who lived in Murray Hill. Once again I made an exception, not least because this one was even cuter than the last. 
Plus, I was curious to ask him about being attracted to transgender women, since he had told me he was. “Would you be interested in me if I had surgery?” I inquired. 
“Probably not,” he said. 
“Why?” 
“Because then you’d just be like any other woman, except you couldn’t have babies. Who would want that?” 
There it was. I had extracted enough justification to put off my surgery for a while longer. Looking back, I realize that I was asking all the wrong questions of all the wrong men. But, since I was investigating my own proposition rather than a question, I found what I was looking for. 
I spent less and less time over the summer with men as the bar exam approached. Now that I had managed to put my surgery to the side, I could think of nothing but passing that test. 
The bar exam was given at the Jacob Javits Convention Center, in what was then a No Man’s Land on Eleventh Avenue south of the Lincoln Tunnel. I rode my bike there and locked it in some place that was not meant to serve as a bike station. Inside, escalators sucked hordes of us down into a vast warehouse-like space with concrete floors and high ceilings. This alternate universe was filled with thousands of exam-takers at tables lined up in a series of rows that just went on and on and on. 
Holy fuck. Everyone in here hopes to be a lawyer. 
The bar exam in New York is a two-day event. Back then, the first day covered the New York Section ~~ five essay questions and 50 multiple choice questions prepared by the New 
York Board of Bar Examiners; and one Multistate Performance Test question, a simulation of a legal situation involving a “real-life” legal problem based on a “File” and “Library” that are provided with the examination. The File contains “source documents” with all the facts of a case. The Library has all the cases, statutes, regulations and rules that apply to the particular situation at issue. 
The second day was reserved for the Multistate Bar Examination, a section of the examination consisting of 200 multiple choice questions about six subjects: Contracts, Constitutional Law, Criminal Law, Evidence, Real Property and Torts. The first morning is three hours and 15 minutes, and the first afternoon and the morning and afternoon sessions on the second day are three hours each. 
The essay questions can cover any of the 19 subjects of the Bar Exam, including the six subjects tested on the Multistate Bar Examination. After the hard work of taking the LSAT, applying to law schools, getting through my legal education and studying for the bar exam, I have experienced next to nothing more rewarding in life than opening the bar exam booklet, reading the first essay question, recognizing the issues, and then outlining and drafting my answer. 
I had not done any studying the night before the first day, and I did no studying the night in between, either. I had learned everything that I could, and further study would only cause fatigue, or, worse, end up confusing me on a subject I already knew. 
The next morning I rode my bike back to the Javits Center for the second day. Multiple choice questions have always confounded me, and at certain points I got up to go to the bathroom just for a moment to clear my head. 
At the end of the exam, an announcement came over the loudspeakers to put down our pens or stop typing on our laptops, 
and stand up. The entire warehouse-like cavern filled with the sound of chairs scraping back over concrete. 
And so it was over. 
I rode my bike up to visit my brother on the Upper West Side, where he and my future sister-in-law were living, for a barbeque. They had a studio apartment on the ground floor, with a “backyard” that was just large enough for a grill, two chairs and a small table ~~ if you didn’t actually take up any room by sitting in the chairs. 
They had another couple over for dinner, as well. The woman was in law school herself, and would later go on to work in the counsel’s office for a major sports team in New York. We talked about the bar exam and joked around for a while, until the guy said, of me, “She just took the bar exam and she’s still sharp as a knife.” For sure, I was charged. 
I was still running on adrenaline that night, not to collapse until the following day. Then the exhaustion hit, and it lasted for a week. I could do virtually nothing except sleep, exercise and take my dog Basil on endless walks ~~ a task that amounted to physical training since he was a Lab/Pit Bull mix puppy with more energy than any earthly creature should have. I walked around in a haze; the primary reason for my existence for the previous two months was now gone. 
I started to feel like myself again just in time. As the end of August approached, I needed to pack up and vacate my apartment. Deep down in my heart, I was still concerned that, despite everything, my first year grades would continue to haunt me and I would never pass the bar exam and become a lawyer. So I hedged with plans to go back to Egypt, indefinitely, for a fellowship that involved tutoring students while earning a master’s degree in comparative literature at AUC. 
* 
The weeks leading up to my departure for Egypt felt like 
a betrayal. I had worked so hard to overcome the obstacles that presented themselves during my first year of law school, on every front. I had devoted my time and energy to turning my life around, gender transitioning and graduating against the odds. I had lived on a student’s budget for three years and sacrificed everything I could in pursuit of these goals… 
And now here I was, up and leaving New York, and the law, to start all over and pursue a fellowship in another field. 
It was not the first time I had done such a thing, nor would it be the last. In my early 20s, as I was living the promises of a career in New York theater and independent film, I had packed up and gone to Egypt to teach English and write. Years later, I would move to Los Angeles just as it looked like my legal career was finally taking off in New York. By the time the Los Angeles thing happened, I recognized my pattern: as soon as a goal comes within reach, I find a new one. 
That perspective had yet to mature, though, and I busied myself getting ready to go back to Egypt. I sat in my bedroom looking at the four walls where I had cried myself to sleep thinking about the sexual assault, gotten up early for my judicial externship every weekday morning, and studied for the bar exam. I stared at the metal bars on the windows that had given me the feeling of safety but now made the room seem like a prison. And I knew only that I felt the need to escape. 
Since Egypt had worked before I thought it would work again. I dreamed of Friday nights spent riding a horse around the pyramids or enjoying the beautiful Cairo night rather than digging through dirt online for a date with some guy in New York who didn’t light my fire. I dreamed of the freedom that I had experienced before, which law school had turned into a memory when I was paying attention to other things, like responsibilities, obligations, and other adult concerns. And I dreamed of the desert. 
I did not realize that all I really needed was a break. Some R&R for a month or two, maybe a trip, or even just a few days’ time off in New York for a while ~~ any of those solutions probably would have done the trick. But it would have been too easy to take a vacation. Worse yet, it was predictable. 
“Mom, I can’t find a legal job here in New York,” I said, explaining why I was leaving. “No one wants to hire me.” 
“Then you’re just not looking hard enough,” she said. 
“You don’t understand, no one will ever hire me with my first year grades.” 
“They’re important now. But after five years, no one is even going to care which law school you went to.” 
“I should have just given up after my first semester. I don’t know why I did this.” 
“I asked you when you first started whether you really wanted to be a lawyer.” 
“I do want to be a lawyer!!” I protested. 
“Then stay in New York, find a job, and work.” 
“How?! I haven’t even passed the bar exam. The results don’t come out for three months. What if I fail?” 
“You are not going to fail.” 
“Even then, why would anyone hire me?” 
“Because you are not a quitter. People are going to realize that, and nothing else will matter.” 
My mom and I had this conversation, or a variation of it, several times that August. As is the case with much of what my mom tells me in the moment, she knew everything before I began to see anything. I was not ready to hear her words, let alone believe them. And so off I went. 
I sensed that the experience I was about to have in Egypt would be different from my previous travels during a layover in Istanbul. I was transporting Basil with me in an extra-large dog crate that was still enormous even when it was unscrewed and split 
in half. Since the layover lasted the whole day, the airline sent me to a hotel in Istanbul for a shower and a nap, and to use as a base for an afternoon of seeing the city. I somehow managed to get my suitcases and Basil and his gigantic crate into a cab driven by a guy who must have thought I was out of my mind. 
I rolled down the window as we drove toward the Bosphorous Strait and took in the feeling of having returned somewhere I loved, as the warm air of summer rushed onto my face. Basil stuck his head past mine and out the window all the way to the hotel. 
It was glorious Istanbul. 
But the city I saw was not the same. The newness was gone and the sense of adventure had lulled. I knew I was going to go hang out in Taksim for an afternoon, trying to find some of the streets that I had walked down years before, exploring what I had already explored, everything being pretty much the same in the experience, except my age. The luster of which I had fond memories from my trip as a young person was now covered in a film of jetlag and the student debt that I was putting on hold with my fellowship. 
The nap helped. Revitalized, at least in part, I was able to enjoy being in Istanbul for an afternoon while a porter at the hotel watched after Basil. That night we managed to stuff the dog crate into another taxi, tinier than the last, and the driver wove through traffic to the airport just in time for the flight to Egypt. Despite the reservations that had bubbled to the surface in Istanbul, as soon as the plane landed in Cairo I knew that I had once again arrived in one of my homes in this world. 
I waited and waited for the luggage conveyor belt to yield Basil’s crate. All the passengers came and went, all the baggage was picked up, and then the machine stopped. 
“Where’s my dog?” I asked one employee, and then another, walking around the baggage claim area. Basil was 
nowhere to be found. 
So then I got onto the conveyor belt and climbed through a passageway into an unloading area somewhere in the bowels of the airport. There was Basil, looking up at me and wagging his tail. 
Two attendants appeared out of nowhere. “What is my dog doing here?” I asked. They explained that the crate was too big to fit through the passageway onto the conveyor belt, so they were just waiting for someone to come get him. I unscrewed the crate, pushed each half through to the baggage claim area, and went outside to look for the dog boarding company that had agreed to pick us up at the airport and take care of Basil while I scouted around for an apartment. 
Another taxi ride with the window down. And another warm and pleasant Cairo summer night, just as I remembered, only just ever so different, I’d later find out how. 
* 
I stayed at Horus House Hotel in Zamalek on Ismail Mohammed Street, the same street on which I had lived with Ahmed years ago. Unlike the summer before law school, this time I had not contacted Mohammed to look into accommodations on a houseboat; I walked over the Nile via the 15 May Bridge to the infamous Kit Kat Square, where the houseboats were, on my own. 
Sure enough, the same large bawaba with kohl-darkened eyes was still running the show from her hut on the riverbank. She was squatted over a bucket doing dishes as I descended the staircase down the embankment. I approached her with caution. I had kept the gate open in case I had to make a run for it ~~ after all, I had gender transitioned and did not know how she would take the news. 
I inquired about a flat, wondering what thoughts those startling kohl-darkened eyes were harboring. From the normalcy of her response, though, I gathered that she did not recognize me 
and had no idea I was the same person who had lived in the houseboat twice before. 
Or perhaps she did. 
The downstairs flats where I had stayed in the past were both occupied. But, as it turned out, one of the upstairs flats was coming available in September, just a couple weeks away. I gave the bawaba a deposit and headed back to Zamalek to sit down with Harold Bloom’s The Western Canon: The Books and School of the Ages, which I was reading in preparation for my fellowship in comparative literature. 
One afternoon several days later, I was sitting on the hotel balcony overlooking Ismail Mohammed Street, having tea, and picking through The Western Canon, when a young man came out and sat down near me. We struck up a conversation. He was a 19-year-old American college student, and he was going to be studying for a semester abroad at AUC, just as I had done at his age nine years before. And, like me, he had elected not to stay in the dorms and was rooming in the hotel while he looked for an apartment. 
“I didn’t stay in student housing, either,” I said. “I wanted to experience Cairo, not some hermetically sealed dorm filled with a bunch of other exchange students.” 
As we talked, the pang of those nine years grew, almost bringing tears to my eyes. How quickly it all flashes by, as moments of life light up for less than an instant, just long enough to form an impression that lives on as a memory ~~ it’s no wonder that we all remember the same thing differently, since time is gone before it even was. I would recall these sensations during that conversation with the young American when, years later, a friend of mine would point out that the word “moment” is derived from the Latin word “momentum,” which means movement, perhaps because time never stops? 
“Will you do me a favor?” I asked. 
He nodded. 
“Travel,” I said. “Take the overnight train down to Luxor and Aswan, take the bus to the Sinai and climb Mount Catherine for the sunrise, visit the desert oases and especially Siwa,” I said, thinking of the Temple of Amun. “Do not wait for anyone else to go with you. Just go. Go everywhere and see everything you can. You will never regret it.” 
It had been tempting to say a whole lot more, starting with, “When I was your age…” But I held back. I knew he was about to embark upon his own journey, on which he would form a cornucopia of memories that would sustain him for years to come. He did not need mine. Oh, how I wished in that moment that I were he, back at the threshold of life in Egypt for the very first time. 
We talked a while longer, and he was on his way. I sat there for the rest of the afternoon, pretending to read my book. Where had I heard those words about traveling and never regretting it, what was the reference? I could not recall for the life of me until a couple years later, when I was watching The Namesake, a film based on the novel of the same name by Jhumpa Lahiri. 
The movie opens on a train in India, where the main character’s father Ashoke encounters an older gentleman who speaks of two years he spent in England: “It was like a dream,” he reminisces. “Have you ever thought of going abroad? You should. You are young. You are free. I’ll tell you one thing, you must go out and conquer the world. You will never regret it.” 
Years later, while writing these words, I Googled the opening clip of The Namesake and watched it on YouTube to make sure I quoted the dialogue accurately. The older gentleman’s exhortation had stuck with me all these years, but I had forgotten Ashoke’s response: “My grandfather always says that is what books are for. To travel without moving an inch.” 
How to choose travel over books, or vice versa? I cannot imagine life without either. 
Indeed, the question begs itself: what might I have seen in all those Cairo hotels with Bruce and The Iranian Who Loved Madonna if I had put down Wittgenstein or The Portrait of a Lady, even just for a couple nights? Whom might I have met in the town square in Antigua if I had spent a few more afternoons there, rather than lumbering through The Man Without Qualities, which Musil died before completing, anyway? Is there any life anywhere that I was meant to live but didn’t, because I was buried in a book? Conversely, is there any book that would at any time have helped form me into a different person, if I had been able to read more instead of flushing my emotions down the time toilet of sex addiction? 
The tension between inhabiting books and living in the world outside them has threaded itself through life as time has gone on. Years later, as a young lawyer, I would learn that I needed book knowledge to be able to function in the courtroom just as much as I needed to gain an understanding of the law ~~ that is, to whatever extent I can try to understand a system of rules and procedure subject to rationality and instinct or even whim in equal measure. 
* 
When the day came for my move from Horus Hotel to the houseboat, I took a taxi and experienced the only really bad thing that ever happened to me in Egypt: the driver absconded with my carry-on in the trunk of the cab. That piece of luggage had everything that mattered most to me at the time, including the only copy of a photograph of Mohammed and me from that first summer together, as well as a wooden sculpture of two figures embracing which I had picked up in Crete during my trip from Athens to Tel Aviv years before, a keepsake that had accompanied me everywhere I lived during so many years of moving around. 
The missing suitcase also included various banking papers, and my phone. I went to the local police station in Imbaba, not far from Kit Kat Square, where the houseboats were moored, to see if there was anything that could be done. There, I explained my problem to a good-looking policeman, who had approached me and asked, in English, if he could help me. A few minutes later, he went to chat with his colleagues and then, nodding in my direction, he said in Arabic, “I want to marry her.” 
“Great, let’s go, you’re handsome and I love you,” I interjected, also in Arabic. “But first I want my things.” 
I ended up in the bowels of the police station in an office where a few policeman were relaxing in the heat of the afternoon. The officer assigned to my case took out a few forms and started filling them out as I told the story of what had happened. My Arabic was rusty, since I had not been in Cairo for four years. I wanted to say something that would defuse the tension as I tried to spit out my narrative. 
The officer was bald and had a moustache, so I turned to one of his colleagues and said, “His hair moved from his head down his face.” The room burst into laughter and we bungled through another quarter hour until we were done. 
After a week had passed and the local police were so far unsuccessful, I went to the security office at AUC and spoke with the head, a mysterious chain-smoker of a man who had been trained at the FBI academy in the United States decades before. After his network of spies came up dry, I ultimately made it to the offices of a phone company near downtown and then some sort of headquarters out in the middle of the desert in New Cairo, where I had never been before. Cairo is a giant onion for me. I peel it layer after layer and cry the whole time, all for the flavor. 
One of the problems with the missing suitcase was that it contained my supply of estrogen for the next six months. Without the hormone, my body would start losing feminine 
features and re-masculinize. I made an appointment with an endocrinologist in the faintly Westernized neighborhood of Mohandiseen to get a new prescription, dreading the first appointment as if it were torture. Would I get a doctor who had never seen a transgender patient before and refuse to treat me? 
As this new doctor entered, I sat on the examination table clenching my hands on my lap in anxiety. I danced around an explanation of my situation until blurting out, “I am transsexual.” 
Without missing a beat, he asked, “Have you had corrective surgery yet?” 
Even though I had learned Arabic and lived in Egypt before, I had, after all these years, allowed myself to slip back into the fear of otherness, the belief that the Middle East was backwards or behind the times. Of course it wasn’t. Of course the endocrinologist I saw was qualified and experienced with hormone replacement therapy. And of course he understood that my gender transition required surgical correction. 
I mean, really. 
* 
The Comparative Literature Department at AUC was grounded in the classics, and so we began with Homer and Greek dramatists whose work I had not read since college. I resisted the core curriculum at the beginning, insisting that I had received an undergraduate education already and was in Cairo to focus on Arabic literature. But, a couple classes into the experience, I began to remember why the work of the ancients has endured, and still matters. 
I joined the gym at the Marriott Hotel in Zamalek, an oasis of tranquility in the center of Cairo. There I was able to use the exercise facilities and the pools, where I sometimes sat and read much of The Iliad. And there I wept as I read Andromache’s pleas to Hector not to go to war in Troy: 
 
“Dear husband,” said she, “your valour will bring you to destruction; think on your infant son, and on my hapless self who ere long shall be your widow ~~ for the Achaeans will set upon you in a body and kill you. It would be better for me, should I lose you, to lie dead and buried, for I shall have nothing left to comfort me when you are gone, save only sorrow. I have neither father nor mother now. Achilles slew my father when he sacked Thebes the goodly city of the Cilicians. He slew him, but did not for very shame despoil him; when he had burned him in his wondrous armour, he raised a barrow over his ashes and the mountain nymphs, daughters of aegis-bearing Jove, planted a grove of elms about his tomb. I had seven brothers in my father’s house, but on the same day they all went within the house of Hades. Achilles killed them as they were with their sheep and cattle. My mother ~~ her who had been queen of all the land under Mt. Placus ~~ he brought hither with the spoil, and freed her for a great sum, but the archer ~~ queen Diana took her in the house of your father. Nay ~~ Hector ~~ you who to me are father, mother, brother, and dear husband ~~ have mercy upon me….” 
 
I wept because this passage encapsulated the love between a man and a woman that I wanted to experience, just as I had longed to be caressed like Kristin Scott Thomas by Ralph Fiennes. I lulled myself believing that, if I could not, if my destiny in this life were not to be so loved, then at least I could glimpse souls meeting through the window of literature and art. Where else was what I sought but in the minds of others that inspired the hands that wrote the words on pages all around the world? These longings I felt were human ones, indeed they had been since the 
beginning and always would be, and I had always been drawn to reading because books contained the dreams I desired to touch. 
And so I also began to understand that, since corrective surgery was available to me, I could no longer live without it. 
I made arrangements with the surgeon in Thailand whom I had chosen during my search the previous summer, while studying for the bar exam. My new birthday would be December 13, as soon as practicable after I completed the fall semester of my fellowship at AUC. 
To fill up the emptiness of waiting for the operation, I settled into a routine of reading more of the classics, pursuing my independent study work in Arabic literature focusing on Naguib Mahfouz, and tutoring students at the university’s Writing Center. In between, I spent as much time as possible exercising and reading and dreaming in the oasis of the Marriott. The hotel was close enough to the houseboat that I could walk, and I went every morning and every evening to avoid the challenges of being alone too much. 
Sooner or later, I wandered into contact with the university’s nascent LL.M. program, a curriculum leading to a graduate degree in legal studies, which had been initiated a year or two before. I was asked to teach a seminar in legal writing. What are you doing? I asked myself. You squeaked through your first year of law school and passed by a hair, you have no business teaching anyone anything. 
But, as it turns out, the remedial class in legal writing that I had been required to take in law school had drilled the techniques of legal writing into my head so thoroughly that they were now second nature. I stood in front of a class of eager students and, as I began talking, I taught them the not-so-secret formula for all legal writing: IRAC ~~ Issue, Rule, Analysis, Conclusion. 
“It can be used to answer any legal question at all,” I found myself explaining, “no matter how complex. Just identify 
the issue, or each sub issue if there are any, recite the applicable law from a statute or code along with any interpretive case law if appropriate, apply each aspect of that law in your analysis of the facts, and arrive at a conclusion.” 
Thus I communicated in two sentences what had taken three years of law school for me to learn. 
After that seminar, I was asked to read and mark masters’ theses in international human rights. At first the assignment made me feel like I was in the film adaptation of Jerzy Kozinsky’s Being There, in which Peter Sellers, with stoic-comedic precision, plays a gardener propelled into a series of situations where he is mistaken for someone he is not, and worshipped for prowess he lacks, by various members of the British upper class ~~ all by happenstance. As soon as I delved into the theses, however, I recognized the legal issues and procedural mechanisms that we had learned about in the international human rights class I had taken at Hastings a year and a half prior. I felt I might be useful, after all. 
Meanwhile, in the first few weeks of my fellowship, I had met an Egyptian guy named Shadi and we’d gone out a couple times. He knew about my gender transition, and the status of my body. Eventually we were intimate, which was a leap for me because, by that point, I had grown uncomfortable with my body to the point of disassociation. It was a mistake: after he was finished, he put on his clothes and left immediately without saying a word. 
I curled up in bed and cried. I hated my body. 
* 
Of course within that body dwelled a heart, and it still beat with the craving to connect with another. A month or two later, I met a nice man whom I’d call Hameed, an employee at the Marriott. The people who worked at the Marriott were not supposed to interact with the guests socially, I guess, since he was 
summoned away within minutes of our first conversation. But we somehow managed to continue communicating, and I gave him my phone number. 
We met one evening and took a stroll together along the Nile. I wanted to tell him about myself and what I was grappling with, but I could not bring myself to spit out the words. All I managed to explain was that I didn’t have a womb, and couldn’t have children. Hameed said it was no matter, he was still interested in getting to know me, and he called me many times after that night. But I never met him again, I just couldn’t. 
It was a battle to hold myself together when I had to, and so, when alone, I let myself fall apart. I reached the point where I cried every day, and every time I went to the bathroom or took a shower. Either activity meant that I would have to see or touch my body and be reminded of the chasm between it and the life I wanted so badly to live. All I wanted was to be free, and to have nothing to hide anymore, and to at least have a shot at feeling lovable, to myself if no one else. 
One day, I got into a taxi in Zamalek after some grocery shopping, and the way I happened to sit down on the seat sent a reminder of my body in a jolt straight up to my brain. Being anatomically male was physical pain. I cried out and burst into tears. The driver turned around in concern and asked me what was wrong. 
I gathered myself enough to say that I had an injury and had just sat down wrong, and everything was fine. He drove me back home to the houseboat, glancing into the rearview mirror from time to time, and meeting my eyes with his. 
With that taxi ride, the risks of the surgery lost any power over me. It no longer mattered whether the procedure got botched, whether I lost the capacity for an orgasm, whether the result would turn men off, whether anything that could go wrong would, whether I would be alone forever afterward, or even 
whether I died. My life without the surgery would be next to no life at all, at best a ghost’s, and not mine. I had reached the end of the road: I needed the surgery to live. 
One afternoon a couple weeks later, I passed by a church in Zamalek that I been by hundreds of times before over the years. I had never entered. This time I went inside, knelt down, and prayed to God for help to get through the next two months until my surgery. And I went back, day after day, every afternoon, on my way back from the Marriott after reading and exercising, and I prayed more. 
I was so consumed with my surgery that I had forgotten about the New York Bar Exam, and was only reminded once a friend of mine who was watching for the result to become available online e-mailed me congratulations for having passed. Later that day, I went to the pyramids and walked around. Here was where my brother and I had climbed a pyramid together even though we weren’t supposed to, the first time I was in Cairo; and where my friends and I had ridden horses through the desert, the second time I lived in the city and taught English and the rest of it; and, now, where I went to process the news that, despite all odds, I was going to be a lawyer after all. 
Antiquity towered all around. I was a piece of dust like any grain of sand in the expanse spreading away into the desert, blown about by the winds of time. Yet I had achieved something ~~ I had followed through on a goal that I set myself here in Egypt four and a half years before, when I witnessed the incident on the Queen Boat and began to understand the importance of the rule of law. It was time for me to stop dithering, and bellyaching, and to go be a lawyer. 
Only a few weeks lay ahead until surgery in Thailand and then the rest of my life. As the interlude crawled by, I received two rejection letters that would define my struggle to develop a career for the next year. The first was from the LLM Department 
at AUC. After teaching the seminar and working on the international human rights theses, the Department had asked me to be interviewed for a teaching position, and I had done so; then they had changed their minds. 
The second was from Judge Francis, for whom I had externed during law school. The summer before, I had submitted an application for a year-long clerkship in Chambers. My hope was that I had demonstrated my potential to be a law clerk despite my first-year law school grades, which otherwise would have all but precluded me from even being considered. Although the rejection was a disappointment, not landing that clerkship would turn out to be a blessing: eleven months later, the opinions I wrote during my externship would serve as writing samples that secured my first law associate position, which, in turn, unraveled into a series of events that seemed meant to happen. 
And so off I went to Thailand with a tabula rasa. There would be no job waiting for me after surgery, and nothing in particular to return to New York for, save an unknown future. 
* 
My surgeon’s wife met me at the airport in Bangkok and we went straight to the office for a consultation. In subsequent years, my surgeon would become internationally renowned for transgender surgeries; at the time he was less well-known and just making his mark on the map from this corner of the globe. He talked to me about the procedure and aftercare, answered my questions, and then asked me to sign a consent form, which I read word for word. 
A line near the end of the form stated that I recognized the surgery was irreversible. I had never been to Thailand before. I knew no one in the country except another patient with whom I had been corresponding on the Internet, who happened to be there at that time as well. I looked up at my surgeon and into his almond-brown eyes as deeply as I could, and then I signed. 
A day or two later, I lay on the operating table as the anesthetist instructed me to extend my arm so he could insert a needle that would deliver whatever was putting me under for the operation. 
After all my fears about what could go wrong, I had determined to go into gratitude during these final instants of consciousness. My last thought as I closed my eyes was, “I saw the world.” 
And then all went dark. 
My first thought as I became conscious was, “I am alive!!” 
I opened my eyes to see a crowd of Thai nurses standing around my bed and giggling. 
“What ~~ what are you laughing about?” I asked. 
One of the nurses pointed down toward my new body parts. 
“Beautiful,” she said, and then repeated, “beautiful.” 
Well, the result wouldn’t look very beautiful once the swelling started a few days later. Apparently I am a “bleeder” ~~ someone who bleeds freely during surgery ~~ and my surgeon had had to stop a couple times while he was working because my body just wouldn’t stop bleeding. 
Sex change surgery was a virtually painless procedure. I recall feeling some twinges in the middle of the first night, but after that I took the Tylenol I was prescribed simply because I thought I was supposed to, not because I felt any physical discomfort. 
The first few days were a dream. 
But by the time I left the hospital at the end of the week, I was apoplectic. The swelling from all the bleeding had become so severe that no amount of mental contortions could rationalize it away. I was horrified. Then I peed for the first time without the catheter, and I swear it went out at a 90-degree angle. 
“DAD!!” I screamed into the phone, “It’s as if I have a third leg or something!!” 
“Now, calm down,” my dad said. 
“I can’t believe this!! It’s a catastrophe!!” 
“No, just listen,” said my dad, who is a physician. “It’s just surgical trauma, that’s all. Do you have any idea what that tissue looks like under a microscope right now?” 
“As if I need a microscope to see this bulb of flesh!! Goddammit. I am going to throw myself out the window. I’m on the tenth floor.” 
“Just relax, it’s part of the healing process.” 
“Healing process!!” 
I was the Bride of fucking Frankenstein. 
Three weeks later the swelling had gone down, and I was en route to Ko Chang, an island off the coast of eastern Thailand near Cambodia, where I had decided to spend New Year’s. My dad had called me every day at the hotel in Bangkok while I was recovering, and we had talked for an hour or more each time. My brother had called once or twice, too. And I had revitalized my spirit by re-reading Gone with the Wind, which, unlike other books, enveloped me the second time just as it had the first, back when I was living with Ahmed in the apartment on Ismail Mohammed Street, before the incident on the Queen Boat. 
As my tour guide and I waited in traffic on the roadway over the water to the island, I thought of a note that I had received from an online pen pal whom I’ll call Mary. She had been, she told me, among the first patients to undergo sex change surgery in the United States. I believe she was in her seventies when we wrote to each other. 
She sometimes felt like “a guinea pig,” she told me, writing of her transition so distant in the past. She said two other things that have stuck with me to this day. The first had to do with surgery. I had shared my terror with her, and she had said that she 
understood, but: What choice was there? She comforted me saying that the weeks following surgery were “a special time.” 
And indeed they were. All the hotels in Ko Chang were full for New Year’s Eve, with the exception of some villas at a ridiculously expensive 5-star hotel on the beach. I had paid beforehand, however, and so my tour guide was obliged to find me somewhere to stay. That night I slept in one of those just-completed luxury villas, yet to open to the public, for the prepaid price of $40. I had my morning coffee sitting next to my own private swimming pool, which I couldn’t use because it was still too soon for me to swim. 
As you know, years later, I wrote about the following day, New Year’s 2006, in my list of “25 Things About Me” on Facebook. 
It was a special time, just as Mary had said. 
The other tidbit of wisdom Mary gave me was her answer as to why she was coming out now, after all these years, rather than continuing to live stealth. She realized it was important to stand up and be counted, she explained. And so it was; what shape would I have been in through that tumult without a ray of hope from her e-mails? As life would have it, the sentiment she expressed resurfaced in a quote eight and a half years later, when I spoke publicly about my transition from beneath the lens of a profile in The New York Times. 
* 
The warm breeze on Ko Chang turned to a smack of reality once I returned to New York. It was cold and grey, the dead of winter. 
But not at the swimming pool uptown where I played water polo. The dirty snow and forbidding skies outside all disappeared when I showed up for practice with the team I used to scrimmage with on Sundays. For the first time, I walked onto the pool deck without feeling self-conscious. And, as I dove into 
the water, I felt my whole body, every bit, without wanting to hide. 
I moved into an apartment in the East Village that was 250 square feet, including the closet and space taken up by the kitchen cupboards and refrigerator, a few blocks away from my first apartment in New York City years before. 
My initial legal job was as a “Contract Attorney” at a large firm in Midtown. There are four types of legal jobs at large firms: Partners, Of Counsel, Associates, and Contract Attorneys. Partners may be equity partners, meaning they share in profits, or service partners, which means that they receive fixed salaries and proportionate bonuses, but are nevertheless considered partners. Of Counsel are retired Partners or lawyers who are hired laterally for various reasons or promoted from Associate positions without becoming Partner. Associates are often hired directly out of law school and are known for working grueling hours as new lawyers. 
Contract Attorneys are at the bottom, hired (and fired) at will. Matters handled by larger firms routinely involve document reviews with hundreds of thousands or millions of pages of material, and, in those days, Contract Attorneys were often called in for these epic endeavors. 
My first day on my first project started with an orientation for the newest batch of contract attorneys. The experience impressed me; we attended our training in one of the firm’s well-appointed meeting rooms, there was a breakfast spread, and lunch was also provided. The Lead Associate heading up the training was well-spoken, obviously intelligent, and had previously worked for a U.S. government agency in Washington, DC. 
My feelings changed the second day, when we were escorted to the floor where we would be working. Exiting the elevator bank, we entered a large room with several rows of computer screens just inches away from each other. There were windows, but the computer screens faced inward, toward the wall 
around the center of the building, which enclosed the elevator bank and bathrooms ~~ as well as windowless rooms with more computer screens. 
I was assigned to a computer in one of the windowless rooms. We all sat down and started reviewing documents, as we were required to do for ten hours a day until the project was completed. 
In a few days, we were instructed to come in for eight hours on Saturdays. For lunch I brought a Tupperware box of granola, which I ate with a yogurt I bought at a deli nearby. Midtown was quiet since it was a weekend in winter, and I stared out the deli windows at the street outside, thanking my lucky stars that I had found work. I hid my face and cried with appreciation that I was able to use my law degree to make money, at the rate of $22 an hour. 
Soon enough, our quotas were raised from ten to twelve hours a day. Car service home would be provided, and overtime would be paid at time and a half. Another attorney in the windowless room came up with the idea of turning off half of the lights after dinner, a phenomenon which we called “sunset.” A few days later, I encountered a woman in the elevator who was on a separate project, and I mentioned that some people in our group were now working more than 70 hours a week. She responded that she had been working ten hours a day, seven days a week, for seven months. 
“It takes time to adjust,” she said, and disappeared into the rows of computers. 
* 
I started taking Basil with me on my run every morning so he could get exercise before being cooped up inside all day without me. I was fortunate enough to find a dog walker downstairs, whom I could just barely afford. 
In the month since I’d arrived, I had made friends with 
the woman next door, whom I’ll call Marina. Within the first few minutes of our acquaintance, I learned that she had just moved to New York from Paris and had had several plastic surgeries, and, as her dog scuttled around the stairwell hallway with Basil, she added that she knew, just knew, that we would be great friends. 
“We’ll go out one night when you’re not working,” she said. 
The universe smiled on me and I found another contract attorney project at a “lifestyle” firm, so called because the lawyers there place value on personal time. The pay was better, the hours were more manageable, and the working environment was collegial. Finally I could carve out time to complete my Character and Fitness application, the final phase of the admission process to the Bar of New York. In addition to gathering various documents, such as official name change papers and Affidavits of Good Moral Character, the application requires listing all employments and residences since age 21. 
The process of chronicling that information verged on interminability. Fortunately, I had looked at the application while I was still living in Cairo the fall before, and I had spent an afternoon in Zamalek verifying former addresses that I otherwise would have been unable to recall. Years later, the application would come in handy; in connection with my first terrorism case, I would have to complete an application for a United States Security Clearance in the course of a Single-Scope Background Investigation, which called for all the information in the Character and Fitness application, and more. 
One afternoon late that winter I discovered that I could have an orgasm. 
“Oh, my God!!” I yelled. “Oh, my God!!” 
And then I cried. 
Marina dragged me out a couple weeks later, to a bar across the street which had a pool table and Skee ball machines. I 
met an Extremely Cute Corn-fed Guy. We talked for an hour or so. I gave him my number, and, as I was leaving, I ran into Marina outside. 
“I hope he calls,” I said. 
“Don’t hope,” she said. “Expect.” 
That night I was awakened by the sounds of sex coming through the wall from Marina’s apartment. I just knew whom she was with. 
The following day she confessed that she’d brought Extremely Cute Corn-fed Guy home with her. 
“All I wonder is why he was talking to me,” I said. 
“Haven’t you ever heard of the guy talking to the friend of the girl he really wants to talk to? They do that all the time.” 
I had completed my transition to female physically, but there was still a lot to learn. 
Dating was indeed a nightmare. I had no experience with disclosure, and I had no idea when or how to talk to men about my past. One time, I was on a first date with a Pakistani Finance Guy I’d met online, who took a phone call in the middle of dinner. He stared at me as he listened on the phone, but said nothing. After dinner, we made our way back to my place and went to bed ~~ I was pushing the guidelines of my sexual recovery plan at the time, but I longed for contact with a man. 
He called me the following night. 
“Is it true?” he asked. 
Of all fucking things, his roommate had been on the same online dating site, and I had corresponded with said roommate and told him about my past sometime prior. Then the roommate had seen my profile on my date’s computer and had called in the middle of dinner to “warn” him. My date hadn’t believed it. But the following day, the roommate had dug up an online message from me and shared it with my date in person. 
“But we went to bed together,” I said. “You went down 
on me.” 
“I know,” he said, “but somehow it’s different now that I know.” 
And then there was the Indian Finance Guy. Our first date was at the Met, where we wandered through the Egypt rooms and lounged around the Temple of Dendur. I lay on the edge of the floor next to the reflecting pool at the foot of the Temple, and the Indian Finance Guy sat there touching the top of my head, looking down at me as I looked up at him. 
He asked why I kept smiling. I did not tell him that we were living a dream that I had had ever since seeing When Harry Met Sally in high school ~~ just like Meg Ryan with Billy Crystal, I was here at the Temple with a man whom I liked a lot. And he was cute. 
Afterward we went to Old Devil Moon on East 13th Street, a hole-in-the wall serving jambalaya and delicious cornbread that eventually went the way of so many haunts in the East Village, and closed. We sat in a booth surrounded by strings of Christmas lights, which lined the walls and shone year round. 
The waitress came to take our order, and asked me, “Were you just in The New York Post with your dog last week?” 
The Indian Finance Guy cocked his head and raised an eyebrow. 
“Yes,” I said, “that was me.” 
“I thought so!! I was like, I know that girl, she comes into the restaurant sometimes.” 
She took our order and departed. 
“This has never happened to me before,” I said. “I promise.” 
What had happened was this. About a month before, I had been jogging down East Sixth Street toward the East River Park with Basil early one morning. A Volvo station wagon pulled up right next to us, and a woman in the driver’s seat reached over 
to the passenger side window, rolled it down, and screamed, “Wait!! Wait, stop!!” 
She turned out to be a reporter for The Post who wanted to do a story on people who exercise with their dogs. She interviewed me, a photographer took a picture, and, to my surprise, the following week there was a photo of me in The New York Post accompanied by a little story including this paragraph: “With just 14 percent body fat, Zoe Dolan is the picture of health, running two to three miles daily. What keeps her motivated? The eager, happy expression on the face of her workout partner: a pit bull named Basil.” 
The Post incident did not deter the Indian Finance Guy. We went out on a second date, and then a third. He started calling me every night after our third date, and we talked until we fell asleep. It was just lovely. 
Then one night I talked to him about my past. 
His first question was: “What was your name?” 
“My name?” I asked. 
No man I dated had ever asked me that question before, and none has ever since. 
“I don’t like to talk about my previous name,” I said. “I do not want you to associate me with it.” 
The thing was, he explained, he wanted to have children one day. He got off the phone without delay, and that was that. 
By this time, I was in closer contact with my mom. Our interactions had changed since my surgery; she later told me that she had accepted my transition at that point because it was done. 
Soon she visited New York and came over to see my apartment/room/shoebox. I recalled her threat that she would never be seen in public again with me if I transitioned; I was grateful to have my mom back. One night, I told her all about my current boy problems, from the phone call during dinner to the conversation about having children, to a handful of other men 
with whom I had been on a date or two in recent months. 
She looked at me in the eye, shook her head, and said, “Zoe, your problem is, you just don’t understand men.” 
* 
That summer I took my third contract attorney position, this time at a newly formed legal services company with offices in Soho. There were 25-75 other contract attorneys, depending on the phase of the project. We were pushed to review as many documents as possible and work a lot of hours, but the environment was congenial, and we formed friendships outside of work. One way we pushed through the day was to share music tips with one another, and I discovered a number of artists I otherwise might not have known about before they broke, like Regina Spector. 
I took to swimming at the local public pool down on Houston Street, and in the morning I rode my bike there in a bikini. Then I rode to the office in Soho and changed into work clothes in the bathroom. “I haven’t ridden a bike wearing a bikini since I was six years old,” one of my co-workers told me. I did not mention that I had never ridden a bike in a bikini until now, and, goddammit, better late than never. 
Around this time I realized that The New Group was probably not going to produce my play, after all. Either they had fallen out of love with it, or I had strayed from my intention, or both. Scott Elliott still insisted that the theater was going to put the production on, but I sensed that it was not going to happen. Saddened, I turned to a project I had meant to embark on for some time; in high school I barreled through a used copy of C. K. Scott Moncrieff and Terence Kilmartin’s translation of Remembrance of Things Past by Marcel Proust, which I bought in a used book store in San Francisco; now I wanted to read D.J. Enright’s translation In Search of Lost Time, all six volumes, one page at a time, savoring every sentence. 
Savoring every sentence ~~ some of which extended over a page or more ~~ in 5,000 pages of Proust’s manuscript required nothing if not a commitment. Since I was too tired to appreciate the work by the time night rolled around, I incorporated the project into my morning practice. The time-space continuum operated as a prism during those hours of dawn, in between sleep and wakefulness at the other side of the day from where the masterpiece begins: Proust’s description of falling asleep as a child, a recounting which wends through the first 60 pages of Swann’s Way, volume one of the six. 
It was a project that would take more than a year, I knew. Just as I knew that, when it was over, I would not be able to read fiction with the same eyes ever again. 
And so it was. 
During the process, I looked forward to the weekends, when I could read without the press of getting ready for work. Gradually my morning practice expanded into a chunk of the day that I wanted to go on forever. 
Still, nothing could gloss away how I wanted to have sex in the right body for the first time and was going a little crazy over it. I had dated several men by this point, and a couple had stayed over, including the guy with the interfering roommate. But, of the ones that I was interested in, none had stuck around long enough for me to go all the way with, in harmony with my sexual recovery plan. How frustrating; I was having trouble waiting any longer. 
The main obstacle was disclosure. On the one hand, I believed that my past was not anyone’s business if I didn’t want to talk about it. And at that point in my life, I did not want to discuss the subject at all. I had had to fight for years and now I just wanted to live freely and experience life. 
On the other hand, I knew that most men would probably consider my past to be material information that they deserved to know, as my dad counseled me, before any feelings 
developed. I did not necessarily agree with that proposition, particularly since it was so difficult to imagine men developing feelings for me at all. But I could understand, I guess because the information was also important to me: I wanted my first time to be with someone who really knew me and accepted me. 
I searched and searched, and tried and tried. All to no avail, of course; I was searching and trying too hard. 
Then one day that summer, Robert, the skinny Guyanese with breathtaking eyes whom I had fallen in love with years before, managed to get in touch with me. We had lost contact after I went to Egypt to teach English, but he had continued to correspond with my sister-in-law, after I had used her computer one summer forever ago to chat with him. 
Robert and I met up for dinner at Mitali East on Sixth Street. While we were waiting for a table, we ran into Scott Elliott from The New Group ~~ it turned out that Mitali East had been his regular Indian restaurant for years, too. 
After dinner, Robert walked me home. Then he came upstairs. Then we lounged around. Then he started giving me a massage. 
Then I said, “Rob?” 
“Yes?” 
“Will you do me a favor?” 
Initially I thought maybe he wouldn’t be able to go through with it, since, after all, he is gay. We fell in love when I was in a male body, and everything was physically different now. But, gentleman that he is, he soldiered through. And then all of a sudden I had made love from within the right body for the very first time. 
At the end, Robert’s eyes burst open, and he said, “I’ve had sex with you as a man, and I’ve had sex with you as a woman. How many people can say THAT?” 
He grinned. 
As did I. 
That night I drifted off to sleep in gratitude. Years before, my sex addiction had so consumed me that I could not remember my first time in the wrong body. That night with Robert, I had been given an opportunity for a do-over of sorts, this time in the right one. And this time, I would remember. 
Now that I had reached this particular milestone and gotten the obsession with finding the perfect moment out of my system, I was able to focus even more intently on my work. I had just been admitted to practice as a licensed attorney in June, at a ceremony in the Appellate Division, First Department, of New York Supreme Court. I was not planning on attending the ceremony, but the lawyer who had interviewed me in connection with my Character and Fitness application had encouraged me to do so. 
The courthouse for the Appellate Division, First Department is listed on the United States National Register of Historic Places and is a New York City Landmark. The building was constructed at the very end of the 19th Century, and the façade and interiors drip with the majesty of the law. 
My interviewer said I would not regret attending the ceremony. There was not a day that went by, he said, when he did not pass that courthouse and remember the day he was admitted to practice law there. 
As I entered the courthouse for the ceremony, I thought of my conversation with him during the interview. 
“Your medical insurance company refused to pay for your surgery?” he had asked. 
“Yes,” I had said. 
“So how did you pay for it?” 
“I sued them.” 
It was not an appropriate question by any means. But mine was, I think, the correct response, especially when rights 
have been violated and no other recourse is available ~~ after all, I was a lawyer. 
* 
The contract attorney project in Soho ended that September, and I revved up my search for an associate position. During one interview at a small firm, I had been asked whether I was up to the task of writing for cases in federal court, including appeals. I said “Yes” and pushed across the table a list of citations for the opinions I’d written during my judicial externship. Like everyone else, they said they’d call back. 
I accepted another short-term project in Midtown and kept looking. I had been reviewing hundreds of documents per day for nine months, and nothing else. I thought I was going nowhere. Years later, I would be grateful for the skills I developed during that first year of document review, not least in cases where the government turns over hundreds of thousands of pages of discovery; but back then the repetition on a daily basis for so long made me wonder why I had gone to law school, and if this was really all there was. 
At the end of September, I attended a Regina Spector concert at The Town Hall with three girlfriends, two of whom had been on the contract attorney project in Soho, and one of whom was the wife of one of the attorneys on the project. The concert claims a spot in my memory for two reasons. First, we sat in the upstairs seating, not far from the seat I had chosen during the Barbri course after my conversation about gay marriage with Alex the Greek-American. Second, I was grateful to have been included for a night out with some girlfriends from work, an experience that I had only dreamed of for so many years. 
The role that music had played in my life that year coalesced in a passage that I stumbled upon in Swann’s Way. The volume contains a chapter called Swann In Love, which tells the story of a friend of the narrator’s family, Charles Swann, falling in 
love with Odette de Crecy, a woman who will eventually become Swann’s wife. Odette has just persuaded Swann to join her among the “little clan” at the salon of socialite Mme. Verdurin. In attendance that evening is a pianist whom Swann had heard play at an evening party the year before. 
Swann’s memory of the pianist’s music contains this description of “the sensation of breadth or tenuity, stability or caprice” conveyed by musical notes: 
 
But the notes themselves have vanished before these sensations have developed sufficiently to escape submersion under those which the succeeding or even simultaneous notes have already begun to awaken in us. And this impression would continue to envelop in its liquidity, its ceaseless overlapping, the motifs which from time to time emerge, barely discernible, to plunge once again and disappear and drown, recognised only by the particular kind of pleasure which they instill, impossible to describe, to recollect, to name, ineffable ~~ did not our memory, like a labourer who toils at the laying down of firm foundations beneath the tumult of the waves, by fashioning for us facsimiles of those fugitive phrases, enable us to compare and to contrast them with those that follow? And so, scarcely had the exquisite sensation which Swann had experienced died away, before his memory had furnished him with an immediate transcript, sketchy, it is true, and provisional, which he had been able to glance at while the piece continued, so that, when the same impression suddenly returned, it was no longer impossible to grasp. 
 
As I read that passage, I thought back to the bus in Cancun, when the jinn and his friend had begun playing their 
guitars and singing. And thus I was reminded that the beauty of a moment lies in its ephemerality, indeed, the sensation that what I am beholding will presently not exist. 
Such is memory. 
* 
Much to my shock, the small firm called back in early October and offered me a job. The salary was too low, and I had the temerity to ask for more. Even more astonishing, they called back again and said they would meet my demand. And could I start that Monday? 
My first day at work, I appeared in federal court with the partner I would be working with; he had a sentencing in a criminal case. The client had just been convicted of a murder, and I would be working on the appeal. 
The initial year I spent working at the small firm was one of the happiest periods of my life. Within three months, I was arguing my first appeal in the Appellate Division, First Department of New York Supreme Court ~~ in the same courthouse where I had been admitted to practice the June before. And a couple weeks later, I was back in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, for oral argument in the same courthouse where I had done my externship two years prior. I happened to share an elevator up to the courtroom with the secretary for Judge Francis. 
“I’m here arguing my first case before Judge Dolinger,” I said. “It’s a motion for summary judgment.” 
As I walked out of the elevator, I remembered one day toward the end of my externship, which had started out warm, and then went haywire once the sky had suddenly gone grey and started dropping snow. The Judge’s secretary had lent me an extra sweater she kept in Chambers so I could stay warm on my walk home. 
Still smiling from the memory, I entered Judge 
Dolinger’s courtroom and sat down at plaintiff’s table for argument against an associate from a law firm with an international reputation and hundreds of lawyers in offices around the world. 
One of the first federal appeals I worked on for the firm was United States v. Riggi, which had arisen from an investigation by law enforcement into the DeCavalcante organized crime family. The case had gone to trial three years before in Manhattan, before the Honorable Michael B. Mukasey, who subsequently became the United States Attorney General. The press seized upon the case because the DeCavalcante family had purportedly inspired the HBO series The Sopranos ~~ which I had binge-watched years before during the early stages of my recovery from sex addiction.  
The main issue in the appeal involved Crawford v. Washington, a case concerning the Sixth Amendment right to confrontation that I will always remember from law school. One day in Evidence class, two years before I worked on the Riggi appeal and the year after the case had initially gone to trial, the professor entered the classroom, passed out photocopies of Crawford, and told us that the Supreme Court had just overruled a few dozen pages of our course book. 
The Second Circuit issued an opinion in September 2008, reversing the convictions in light of Crawford. We had won. 
Meanwhile, I worked on another federal appeal, United States v. Needham, a Hobbs Act robbery (or, simply, a robbery subject to federal jurisdiction and prosecution in federal court), which had gone to trial in Manhattan before the Honorable Gerald E. Lynch. Two years later, Judge Lynch would be elevated to the Second Circuit Court of Appeals as President Obama’s first federal appeals court judicial nominee. 
As the deadline for the Needham appeal approached, so did my boss’s vacation. I knew that I needed to step up and do 
my job. 
“I can handle it,” I said. “That’s what you hired me for, right?” 
The case had a record involving volumes of the transcript from the trial before Judge Lynch, and various other filings. Ten days later, when my boss returned, I had a final draft ready, and the appeal was submitted shortly thereafter. 
The Second Circuit would not issue an opinion until 2010, after I had already left the firm and started my own practice. My brief had challenged the jury instructions concerning a jurisdictional element of the Hobbs Act, which I had seen as a window for argument. “This case presents a situation that is highly unlikely to recur,” the Second Circuit wrote in its decision, “as it arises from Hobbs Act convictions obtained while the law of this Circuit was in flux.” The court reversed the convictions, so we won that appeal too. 
* 
Small firm life agreed with me, and the work atmosphere was, in a word, ideal. My caseload ranged from civil to criminal matters and included cases at the trial level to appeals, in both state and federal court. The firm entrusted me with responsibility and no one ever said anything about my hours, erratic though they were. For a young associate just starting out in the law, I felt fortunate to be living a dream. 
In summer 2007, as I came up on a year at the firm and started to get my sea legs in the practice, my confidence to venture out in the world as a person increased as well. I had begun showing up for a weekly sex addiction recovery meeting downtown, in a fellowship where I felt comfortable because the people there were almost all gay men. Among them, I could relax and let down my guard in the absence of sexual tension. Even so, I did not talk much, and, afraid that I would be rejected or shunned, I did not share about my gender transition at all. 
I sat in the back of the room, letting the qualifications and shares wash over me with experience, strength, and hope. The meeting included handing out sobriety chips to acknowledge anniversaries of periods of time on a sexual recovery plan, and, one day in late July 2007, I stood up for a chip to acknowledge my five-year anniversary. Afterward, a man who co-chaired the meeting asked me to qualify (or, to share my own story in recovery). I agreed to give it a shot that fall. 
I almost called to cancel. As the date of my qualification approached, I realized that, if I were to share my truth, there was no way around talking about my gender transition; it is part of the experience in the blood that beats through the heart of who I am. Yet I feared that, as the only transgender person I knew of in the fellowship at that time, I might not meet with acceptance, or, worse yet, I might make people uncomfortable. The applause that had met my introduction as Zoe at the recovery retreat in California seemed too far away in space and time to be any indicator of what would happen in New York. 
Sitting in a chair in front of the whole room, I knew that, once the words I was about to say left my mouth, I would lose control over them forever. Now I see that it is not I who controlled those words, but those words that wielded control over me ~~ at least for so long as I held them inside. My life had become governed by fear of disclosure, and all because I was gripping my past within me with everything I had. It was time to let go. 
As I did, I entered an embrace. That qualification opened the door to friendships with fellows in the program that have persisted to this day. 
Shortly thereafter, I also let go of my fears enough to fall in love. The object of my affection was a dark-featured Persian-American Jewish guy whom I’ll call Reza, younger than I was by a couple years and really very cute ~~ so cute that my eyes 
widened when I saw the picture he sent me when we met online. Since he worked near my office, we met for lunch at a Chinese place nearby. 
“I am not a rich man,” he said, “but I will be kind to you.” 
And so he was. 
Since neither of us had much money, we spent most of our evenings together walking around the city or hanging out in my apartment. One evening we went to the tall glass building in Columbus Circle and looked at all the expensive stuff in the windows. I saw a Movado watch with diamonds ~~ it was so elegant and pretty, but it was almost twice my monthly mortgage payment, and beyond what I could afford. We linked arms and walked around some more. 
I cooked most of our meals, including breakfast, and one morning I decided to throw some chocolate covered espresso beans into the pancake mix. I don’t know if you have ever had pancakes with chocolate covered espresso beans but I recommend them. Reza and I were instantly hooked. I told him I had special feelings for him, as we were watching American Gangster at the Regal Union Square Stadium, and, later then that night, we both said I Love You. 
On my December 13th birthday, he met me outside my office building with a bag from Macy’s. It did not occur to me that there was a present inside until he handed it to me in a subway station a few minutes later. 
The present was a gift set of Dior’s J’adore, with a little leather bag and scented lotion to accompany the perfume. Suddenly I remembered a conversation two or three weeks before, when he’d asked me what perfume I liked; now I knew why. 
I had never experienced being treated this way by a man. For me, it was all straight out of the movies. I had not known these things really happen. As my Christmas present to him, I 
painted a portrait of the two of us from one of my favorite photos of us together. 
“You gave me a pig nose,” he said. 
“I didn’t give you a pig nose. You look sexy and I love you.” 
“Why did you give me a pig nose?” 
“Alright, alright. I’ll fix the nose. But it does look like us, doesn’t it.” 
“Fix the nose.” 
* 
I had begun to question where my career was going at the firm. When I had first interviewed for the position, I had understood that, if I wanted to do a trial, we could talk about it. But trials had come and gone, and I had been working on cases in my office all the while. In other words, if I wanted to gain trial experience, then I would have to find a way. 
As it turned out, a lawyer with whom I had discussed my interest in becoming a trial attorney knew another lawyer, and this other lawyer had a trial coming up in state court. Thus I went in for a meeting with Henry the Trial Lawyer, at the end of a work day in December 2007. 
I picked my way through bankers boxes and piles of paper and sat down for a chat to learn more about the first trial I was going to “second seat” as co-counsel. The case involved allegations of sexual abuse of a minor. 
Just shy of three years had passed since working on the Ramirez opinion had taught me to perceive distance between the application of law and my own feelings. In that case, exercising logic apart from sentiment came without effort for one reason above others: up in a room of Chambers, sealed within the ivory tower of federal court, I grappled with legal issues on a computer screen and on paper ~~ away from the courtroom, let alone human beings. The beginning, middle and end of the matter 
existed, for me, in the vacuum of thought. As real as the case was, the reality of it was confined to a fiction in legal analysis. 
The trial would be different. Now the facts of a case would be embodied in a client and live witnesses testifying before a jury. Whereas the record in the Ramirez petition was already frozen in fact by the time I came to it, in the courtroom the story behind the prosecution would cascade into an avalanche of information every day of trial. I had yet to learn that using pigments of evidence to paint a case is just as much an art as using legal arguments in a brief. 
If trials were a dime a dozen, I might have feared that the subject matter of the case could fuck me up inside. In addition to the sexual assault in Bushwick, I am also a survivor of childhood sexual abuse. I had been working on these issues with a therapist for the past couple years, and I had reached the point where I did not really want to think about those memories anymore, or at least for a while. So I didn’t; I wanted trial experience more than I believed harm in childhood should hamper the pursuit of a dream. 
I asked my firm whether I could take vacation time for such an opportunity, and, when the answer was yes, I began investigating the case and preparing for the trial to begin. For a month I conducted on-site visits and interviewed witnesses on Sunday afternoons before water polo, and, next thing I knew, I was sitting at the defense counsel table with Henry and the client. 
During the defense case, I called my first witness. I elicited her testimony over the repeated objections of the prosecutor, who fought against almost every question. 
The trial lasted for a week, and the jury was sent to deliberate at 4:00 p.m. that Friday. I was scheduled to be back at the firm the following Monday, so I vacillated between relief that the taking of evidence had concluded and disappointment that I would likely not be present for the verdict, if deliberations lasted 
longer than an hour and spilled into the next week, as they probably would. 
Less than 30 minutes after retiring to deliberate, the jury returned a verdict: not guilty on all counts. The acquittal, one juror told us afterward, was based on the testimony that I had elicited over the prosecutor’s objections. 
I returned to the office Monday morning and sat down at my desk. What was I doing with my life? Where was I going? 
A few months before, I was having a discussion with one of the partners, and he had showed me the pile of resumes from young lawyers who had applied for my position the year before. They had been my competition. 
I described the feeling to my dad: “It’s as if I was adrift at sea during a storm and someone tossed me a life ring.” 
Where was my gratitude now? Where was the passion that enabled me to take a pay cut to the point where I was not even earning enough to pay back my student loans? 
These worries bounced me around over the next month, February 2008, and I let my jitters creep into my personal life, where they infected my relationship with Reza. We argued, and he came over less and less ~~ until he did not come over anymore at all. 
The last time I saw him, he kissed my forehead goodbye. I sat on the couch right where we had taken the photo I’d used as a model for the painting of us together; two-and-a-half years later there would be another kiss on my forehead by a man in the same spot. 
Later that winter, I attended a dinner held by the New York State Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers. The only person I knew there was Henry the Trial Lawyer. He introduced me to two or three other lawyers at the dinner, including a trial lawyer named David Lewis. David had been co-counsel for one of the defendants on the Needham Hobbs Act Robbery case, in 
which our appeal was still pending at the time; he had read my brief. 
David wears a big beard and is as sharp as they come. He talked about a training for young lawyers that he gives at the Trial Practice Institute in Macon, Georgia. I recall him describing an exercise designed for female attorneys that involved talking to a mirror ~~ for the purpose of addressing “issues” that female attorneys face. 
“David,” I said, “my only issues are currently on appeal in the Second Circuit.” 
And I smiled. 
* 
Reza and I officially broke up in March. I was heartbroken. My very bones ached, and I thought about him all the time. I cried into the dishwater, as my mom would later observe, and I moped around the apartment wishing he would call and we’d make up and everything would be wonderful again. 
He did call eventually ~~ a year later. We made plans to have dinner, knowing that we were not going to have dinner. The same thing happened again a couple times over the next few years, as we planned to get together knowing that we would not do it, and in between we talked on the phone and kicked around old times. 
Now, even more years later, I see that our love was meant to be brief; our moment in time was just as much of a gift as the Dior perfume was. Reza had been my first love, insofar as he was the first man I fell for from within the right body. Because of him, after I had shed all my tears, and once my heart had grown back, I would finally come to believe in love as a possibility, beyond daydreams and stories in books ~~ surely, if it had happened once, then it could happen again. 
A man could love a transgender woman, I had come to understand ~~ a man could love me. Couldn’t he? 
There was still a maybe. A qualification. A contingency lingering in the background somewhere. After all, the burst of love we shared was over. 
And so I went into spring 2008 having fallen in love and helped to win a trial. My morning practice still included reading In Search of Lost Time over coffee, and I was holding onto an associate position at a small firm in New York. Five years before, I was fighting to stay in law school and stuck in the wrong body, hanging out at a club on the weekends and drinking myself to sleep pretty much every night. What would happen if I just kept going, from here? 
My first trial was so draining that, right afterward, I told myself I would not do another. But two months later, another opportunity arose, this time with a federal case involving a four-count indictment that alleged importation of heroin from Nigeria in 2003 and 2006. Well, I’ll just get some federal trial experience, I told myself, and then I’ll be done. 
I knew, however, that a federal trial was going to be different. Preparation would require a lot of time, and not just during the evenings and on weekends whenever possible. My employment at the firm included a financial arrangement for cases I brought in, so I proposed bringing in the federal trial. The experience would improve my lawyering skills, I argued, and therefore enhance my value at the firm. 
Unfortunately, my proposition did not fly. I was given the choice of staying at the firm or leaving to participate in the trial. I knew there was a possibility, even a likelihood, that any case set for trial would instead plead out. I also did not know yet whether the presiding judge, the Honorable William H. Pauley, III, would approve my appointment as associate counsel on the case. There were probably more unknowns that I ignored. 
So I did what I always did in such circumstances: I went ahead. 
Throughout the case, my mind circled back to lessons I’d learned at my first trial earlier that year. Each moment added to the foundation of what had come before. 
How do I feel about building my trial practice on the experience I gained defending a client from charges that I myself might have brought against the man who sexually abused me when I was little? Or, to get to the point, have I ever wondered whether the demons I confronted in so doing would come back and haunt me one day? 
So far, only in passing. 
In the two or three years of childhood up to when my abuser molested me, one of my favorite summertime activities consisted of tiptoeing around the cul-de-sac near the house where I grew up, catching butterflies. The best time to find them was the late afternoon, when they were most plentiful, and when my shadow mixed in with the shadows cast by the leaves on the trees overhead. I crept up on my knees behind them until I was right up close, close enough to close my thumb and forefinger together on their wings. 
They never lived long in the jars where I tried to keep them at first. So instead I would hold them there in my fingers for a moment, studying the patterns on their wings, and then toss them up into the air. 
I do not grieve my own particular loss of innocence as a child anymore. My clients’ lives remind me that, despite how bad it was, it could have been worse. 
What twist of fate put me in counsel’s seat representing my clients rather than in their shoes? There, but for the grace of God, go I. What would have happened if the words “I am American” had not saved me from being arrested on the Queen Boat and hauled off to jail? For others, simply being there was a crime. 
No one can take away my memories of who I am that I 
carry inside. Like those butterflies in the cul-de-sac, by letting them go I will have them forever. 
Just as, by letting me go, that Egyptian State Security Police Officer freed me to remember what it can mean to be American, for good. 
On April 31, 2008, I was an associate with the firm where I started out. The following day, May 1, 2008, I started my own law practice flying solo in New York ~~ like a moth to flame. 
  
III. 
An Ivory Tower of New York 
  
1. 
 
May 23, 2011. Downtown Brooklyn, New York. Trial in United States v. Kareem Ibrahim, in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York, before the Honorable Dora L. Irizarry; a case involving a six-count indictment that alleged a plot to blow up John F. Kennedy Airport in New York. 
 
THE COURT: 
This is, again, the continuation of the defense case. You may call your next witness, Ms. Dolan. 
 
MS. DOLAN: 
Your Honor, the defense calls Kareem Ibrahim. 
 
That day was still three years away. Back in 2008, Judge Pauley approved my appointment, and, sure enough, the Nigerian heroin case ended up going to trial in June. Lead counsel was Martin (Marty) Stolar, who, I would later discover, was involved with the National Lawyers Guild (NLG). The NLG website describes the goal of the organization thusly: 
 
Our aim is to bring together all those who recognize the importance of safeguarding and extending the rights of workers, women, LGBTQ people, farmers, people with disabilities and people of color, upon whom the welfare of the entire nation depends; who seek actively to eliminate racism; who work to maintain and protect our civil rights and liberties in the face of persistent attacks upon them; and who look upon the law as an instrument for the protection of the people, rather than for their repression. 
 
Marty and I were going to get along, I just knew it from the beginning. Following my appointment to the case before Judge Pauley, I showed up at his office every day to review materials and get ready for trial. On the wall in the reception area where I sat was a flyer commemorating the life of the radical civil rights lawyer William Kunstler, who had co-founded the Center for Constitutional Rights in New York. Nearby was the 1945 quote from Pastor Martin Niemöller that makes my eyes sting as I read it even now: 
 
In Germany they came first for the Communists, and I didn’t speak up because I wasn’t a Communist. Then they came for the Jews, and I didn’t speak up because I wasn’t a Jew. Then they came for the trade unionists, and I didn’t speak up because I wasn’t a trade unionist. Then they came for the Catholics, and I didn’t speak up because I was a Protestant. Then they came for me, and by that time no one was left to speak up. 
 
The night before summations at the end of the Nigerian heroin trial, Marty asked me whether I was willing to deliver closing argument on two counts relating to an alleged drug transaction in 2003, while he delivered closing argument on the remaining two counts, which related to another alleged drug transaction in 2006. The strategy almost worked: the jury told us afterward that they initially split on the charges I argued about, though they ultimately convicted all around. 
Shortly after the trial, I attended a Continuing Legal Education course at the Southern District of New York courthouse. Following the presentation, I spoke with a lawyer who had been practicing for decades. He asked about my practice. I told him I had just opened my solo law office that May. 
“I remember that period,” he said, with a glimmer in his 
eye. “It’s a special time.” 
A special time, I thought, just like the interval following sex change surgery, as Mary had told me. I may only get a handful of special times, I should take care. 
Marty kept me around, and, in our next case together that summer, we were successful. This one was a securities fraud prosecution before the Honorable Shira A. Scheindlin. Judge Scheindlin is the federal district judge who, in 2013, struck down the New York City stop-and-frisk policy ~~ under which, between January 2004 and June 2012, the New York Police Department conducted over 4.4 million stop-and-frisks ~~ holding that the policy was unconstitutional. 
During the Nigerian heroin trial, that case was my only case. Now, the securities fraud case was almost my only case. I had only one or two other matters to handle, and they were sleeping. So I did what any young attorney would have done with nothing but a single active case: I investigated the shit out of it. 
Marty was on vacation for a couple weeks prior to the trial. He let me use his office to work from, which gave me an excuse to get out of the studio apartment where I had my home office. I sat at Marty’s desk reviewing materials and making phone calls to potential witnesses all day long. Marty called in the evening to find out what I had uncovered. 
At one point, I realized that I was making contact with witnesses before the prosecution was. Shortly thereafter, I began to have the feeling that I knew more about the case than the government did. As time progressed, I became sure of it. At that point, I knew the first line of my opening argument to the jury, and I was going to go for the jugular ~~ with my teeth. 
The government backed down. A week before trial, the court approved the prosecution’s request for a nolle prosequi ~~ a decline to further prosecute, effectively, a dismissal. 
The news spread around Marty’s office instantly. “They 
were scared of you,” one of the other lawyers in the suite said, nodding his head at me. 
 I was delighted with such a result for the client. But triumph on his behalf also meant I had no active cases. Marty asked me to help out on a couple appeals ~~ relatively small cases which would help me stay busy for a little while, yet not enough work to sustain a practice for very long. 
Even so, I made the decision to buy a road bike. The $1,250 entry level price for a Trek model at the shop I went to in Chelsea made my head spin. How could a bicycle cost that much, let alone the thousands more they were asking for some of the others on the racks? But the moment I slipped onto it and rode around the block, I knew I would not regret the purchase.  
And so I started riding. 
* 
My bike became my best friend. I took the ferry to Staten Island, since it was free, and the warm summer air on the way across the bay blew away all my cares from the week. Once there, I’d ride up Victory Boulevard and sit on the grass on a hill overlooking Silver Lake, where I’d listen to Suzanne Vega and cry, then make my way to Todt Hill and ride through the mansions in the hills over to the beach, where I’d go for a dip, and then I’d head back by Fort Wadsworth under the Verrazano Bridge on the way to the ferry. Years later, when I was working on an investigation for a mafia case, I’d visit some of the same streets I’d ridden down during my explorations of the island by bike. 
Soon I sought longer journeys and began riding up to Nyack, a town on the Hudson River 20 miles north of the George Washington Bridge. I discovered the scenic route on River Road, which runs down under the bridge and then along the New Jersey Palisades that soar up from the river. 
Meanwhile, I received an e-mail from David Lewis. He asked whether I would be interested in working on a federal death 
penalty case scheduled for trial the following month before the Honorable Jack B. Weinstein in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. Judge Weinstein wrote the book on evidence. It is called Weinstein’s Federal Evidence. 
The case involved allegations that the client had killed two men ~~ dismembering one and disposing of the remains in a park in the Bronx, and leaving the body of another in a car on fire at the side of the road. 
The client made statements to law enforcement and a fellow inmate, confessing multiple times to the two murders, which had been cold cases until then. The defense had sought to suppress the statements. Judge Weinstein denied suppression. The court’s opinion surmised, “Nothing short of a piece of duct tape across his lips could have kept [the] defendant from confessing over and over again.” 
The client was serving a sentence on another case at the time that he confessed. Instead of contacting his prior lawyer or new counsel, law enforcement had allowed him to believe that providing information would help him and cut some of the time he had left on the other case. The tactic worked. After the confessions solved the crimes, the government put together its case and sought a sentence of death. 
David Lewis and the other lead lawyer, Louis Freeman, made an application for my appointment as associate counsel for the trial. Judge Weinstein denied the request. 
Undeterred, I volunteered to help out pro bono. I had started my law practice four months before, I was yet to receive payment for any of my work to date, and I was living off of what little savings I had cobbled together from my position at the firm. And now I would be working on a federal capital trial, an all-consuming commitment, for free. I would have to figure out the details later, and if my life imploded then I would move on with less baggage than before. 
There are two phases of a capital trial. The first is the guilt/innocence phase, in which the jury determines guilt or non-guilt. The second is the sentencing phase ~~ which occurs only if the jury has voted to convict the client during the guilt phase ~~ and the question at that point is: life, or death? The client was found guilty, so we proceeded to the sentencing phase. 
We indicated the intent to introduce the testimony of an expert who had conducted a psychiatric evaluation of the client. In response, the government was going to call Dr. Michael Welner, a forensic psychiatrist, to rebut the testimony of the defense expert. 
Due to scheduling issues, Dr. Welner was called to testify out of order ~~ the government called him to rebut the defense expert before the defense expert had testified. Dr. Welner discussed the defense expert’s evaluation on direct examination by the government and then on cross-examination by the defense. After Dr. Welner had testified, however, we rested without calling any further witnesses on the issue. As a result, the defense expert’s opinion was already in the record through Dr. Welner, but the government was not able to further rebut the defense expert’s evaluation or undermine the findings it contained. 
The jury returned a life verdict. It was the client’s birthday. 
Everyone stood up for the jury as they left the courtroom. David Lewis clasped my hand, and, as soon as the jury was gone, we both slumped against the wall in exhaustion. 
Any loss of innocence tends to sadden me, and this trial was a case on point. No matter how heinous the crime, encouraging a defendant to confess without a lawyer present and then seeking his execution based on what he said was, to my mind, a perversion of justice. I had known the law can bend reality like reflections in a carnival mirror. Now I had seen the process of distortion at work: in the end, fairness amounted to little more 
than an aspiration tempered by the courtroom ~~ a theater where facts of the past scripted a drama with rules of evidence and procedure. 
The hope that principles will prevail above all else in our mechanism of justice resembles a candle in the winds of fate. Passion coupled with instinct would only get me so far without the light that experience gives; but, at the same time, experience threatened to do me in: what the fuck was the purpose of conjuring up the energy to build a career on words, which are air? 
In tandem with this wave of cynicism, experiencing the degree to which the human element played a wildcard in the game of law toughened my skin just as much as it chilled me. The courtroom was dominated by men: both David and Lou, all three of the prosecutors, and the judge ~~ all male. I had been apprenticing under men since my job at the firm two years before, and their numbers in the line of work I was pursuing meant I would continue to depend on their mentorship as time marched on ~~ backwards and in heels. Some relationships would require greater fortitude than others; integrity demands that the thicket of sexual tension, however tricky, must remain subject to navigation by determination of the mind. 
Of mice as well as men, my plan was to throw myself back into work the day after the verdict, and build up my practice on the dust that settled. The plan failed for two reasons. First, the depletion that overcame me as soon as the verdict was returned set in for a week; I would need time to process everything that had just happened and what I had learned from working on a federal death penalty trial before Judge Weinstein. Second, once I’d begun to assimilate the experience, I would need something ~~ anything ~~ to work with: cases of my own. 
In the meantime, I had to make a living. But there was more than exigency hanging in the balance: I also had to prepare myself to handle the types of matters I ultimately wanted to work 
on. That ambition required more experience in learning how to fly, preferably under the wings of lawyers who knew what they were doing. So I scoured New York for mentors who could use my help on their cases, and, to compensate for coming out of nowhere, I filled any gaps in my legal background with passion. 
The year prior, I had attended the Federal Criminal Practice Institute at the New York County Lawyers’ Association. Business events make my skin crinkle and roomfuls of strangers are torture, but I needed work, so there was no choice. Overcoming my reticence, I had introduced myself to several lawyers at the Institute. One was Michael Hueston, a trial attorney who served as a panelist on a presentation one morning. 
I had tracked Mike down as soon as I started my own practice. A couple months later, he had asked me to help on a multi-million dollar fraud case pending in federal court in Manhattan. 
And now, in November of 2008, three days after the verdict in the trial before Judge Weinstein, Mike brought me onto the Ibrahim case. Authorization from Judge Irizarry to work on the matter ~~ first as a paralegal, and then, later, as associate counsel ~~ meant that life was going to change. I would need to undergo a Single Scope Background Investigation for a United States National Security Clearance in order to review any classified materials relating to the case. Also, I would be working for the first time on a case that had, at least at the outset, received some degree of international coverage in the media. 
As much as I had learned from the gauntlet of a federal capital trial about how a case could affect me, what I could not have imagined was the degree to which Ibrahim would salt my soul. Nor could I have discerned the distance in a terrorism prosecution between the ideals of justice and the reality of a courtroom. 
Had those lessons unfolded for me earlier, I might not have been able to delve into the case with the same vigor for legal 
issues to sink my teeth into. Back then I was just grateful to be working: the case distracted me from myself, and being of service provided at least an illusion that there was a point to existence beyond struggle for survival. 
* 
It was fall, and the weather was growing colder. One Saturday morning I awoke to the sound of the pipes clanking as the steam snarled its way up the building. Although I’d been taking my regular 60-mile round-trip Nyack ride in the chilly weather for as long as I could, this morning it was too cold to be on a bicycle. I lay in bed fretting about what I was going to do with myself. 
That winter would kick me in the ass with the force that law school had. By the time the holidays rolled around, I was running out of money. I would stop by Marty’s office from time to time for a pep talk; his wife Elsie, also a lawyer, was often there visiting on a break from court. From our conversations I came to believe that, if I could just make it through the first year of solo practice, I would be okay. 
But, sitting at home alone at night, it did not feel that way. Jumping off a cliff to start my own practice had required me to come up with money fast, so I had taken out a balance transfer on a credit card interest-free for 18 months. I did have cases with Mike and Marty, along with an appeal or two of my own; yet my hourly rate was paid by the court at a survival wage, and it would be some time yet before I received incremental payments for my work. 
So I cut back. I stopped spending money on anything that could wait, and I contacted a temp agency to let them know I was available for contract attorney work. 
I faced a perfect storm along with everyone else: the winter of 2009 was close to the depths of the Great Recession, and the legal market had suffered a walloping. Institutional clients were revolting against lawyers’ billable hours to save costs. Large 
firms had frozen hiring and were laying off associates and even partners. Contract attorneys were more expendable than anyone. 
So I cut back even further. One night I stood in the grocery store around the corner from my apartment, wondering what the hell I was going to do for dinner that night, and the next, and the next…and then I remembered Charlie Bucket and his family making do in Charlie and the Chocolate Factory: potatoes and cabbage!! I had never bought and prepared cabbage before, and what a relief it was to discover that one head cost 89 cents and looked like it would get me through two dinners. 
Cabbage tasted great with hummus, and then, for variety, the Grey Poupon mustard that had been sitting in my fridge for probably too long. Cabbage, cabbage, cabbage. And then some red cabbage for further variety. Mercifully, I was hired, cabbage, onto a contract attorney project in midtown, cabbage, and would be receiving a check at the end of the third, cabbage, week. 
* 
A creature of habit, I continued to take the morning run that had resulted in the New York Post article. My usual route included the footbridge over the FDR East River Drive at East 6th Street, on the way to the East River Park. During the winter, the snow on the footbridge gets packed into ice by human feet within 24 hours of a snowfall. I rounded a corner up the on ramp with Basil, slipped, and tumbled on the concrete along the chain metal fence, as the ice and gravel cut up my leg. 
That’s it, I thought, I am going to take that damn California Bar Exam and move to Los Angeles. 
A couple weeks into the contract attorney project in midtown, one of the other lawyers came up to me while I was eating my lunch in the dining area. He was tall and thin, and wore a goatee. 
“Good Lord,” I said two or three minutes into the 
conversation, “are you asking me out?!” 
“Yes,” he said. 
“Why?!” 
“Because you’re pretty, and interesting.” 
“Shut up. You don’t know anything about me.” 
“I’ve heard you talk in the review room. And this is how people learn about each other, isn’t it?” 
“Look,” I said, “I am transgender.” 
“So?” 
“That doesn’t bother you?” 
“I would just like to get to know you. Do you want to go out or not?” 
“Okay. But I am very skeptical about what’s going on here.” 
And so the Goatee Man and I went out a couple times and cuddled once or twice. 
Two or three weeks before, a 330-foot man-made snow-covered jump structure had arisen in one of the baseball fields in the East River Park where I kept taking my morning jog, despite the hazards of the ice. I wondered what the monolith was for until the Goatee Man took me there one freezing night for a world-class snowboarding competition and a performance by the heavy metal band Anthrax. 
A couple years later, when I was on television for the first time, The Goatee Man sent me an email with a photo of me on his television screen that he’d snapped with his phone. 
Dating such a pleasant man gave me a sense of confidence, which prompted me to think about everything I was grateful for. So, a few days before the snowboarding competition, I posted the “25 Things About Me” list on Facebook that I have mentioned three times already. 
The reason this list has stuck out for me is that retrospect illuminates how my emphasis on professional achievement was a 
mask that revealed everything it sought to conceal. As much as the expression I had manufactured put forth a smile, my eyes showed through to anyone who looked. I wanted people to believe that I was strong, and worthy, and lovable ~~ not only so that they would continue being my friends, but also to prove that I deserved my own dream of mattering. But it must have been obvious: as a single woman without a child or a sense of purpose beyond the exigencies of life and career, I sought validation through the activity that had come to make up most of my existence by default ~~ my job as a lawyer. 
* 
Do I still love my work as much as I convinced myself I did back then? Early the following month, March 2009, my passion for criminal defense was put to a test: the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas appointed me to represent Willie Tyrone Trottie, who had been convicted of capital murder and sentenced to death in Houston in 1993. 
Six months and five weeks of investigation in Texas and Louisiana later, my co-counsel and I filed a 112-page habeas petition with 42 exhibits, including affidavits from eleven witnesses that a previous attorney had failed to call to testify at the client’s trial. 
Meanwhile, in May I attended my first Law Day Dinner, which is one of the annual events hosted by the Federal Bar Council, an organization of attorneys practicing in the Second Circuit (encompassing New York, Connecticut, and Vermont), at the Waldorf-Astoria hotel in Midtown Manhattan. I wore a black dress, a string of pearls that my father had given me, and, on my wrist, the Movado watch from that shop at Columbus Circle. I had gone back a year and a half after Reza and I were there. Sure enough, the watch was still available, so I purchased it to celebrate the one-year anniversary of my law practice, financed in part by cabbage. 
Such a purchase had meant sacrificing in other respects, for example, walking to the subway on the way to the Waldorf in flip-flops, with my silver stiletto heels in my hand. 
The cocktail hour of the Law Day Dinner is hosted in a series of three rooms: the John Astor Salon, the Basildon Room, and the Jade Room, and by the end of the hour all three are packed with hundreds and hundreds of people. Most lawyers are there with their firms, which purchase tables for the dinner. The evening includes presentation of the Learned Hand Award, in memory of the late jurist, which is awarded to recognize “Excellence in Federal Jurisprudence.” Past recipients have included federal district and appellate Judges and Supreme Court Justices. 
What the fuck was I doing? I knew one person in the sea of litigators and judges in tuxedos and evening gowns: Henry the Trial Lawyer, with whom I’d done my very first trial the year before. 
The dinner is held in the Grand Ballroom. Judges are interspersed around the room; I was put at a table where United States District Judge Frederic Block was seated. I had first met Judge Block when I was talking with David Lewis one evening outside the courthouse during the trial before Judge Weinstein. Years later, Judge Block would tell me about the book he himself had written and encourage me to write this one. Indeed, during my research, I read Judge Block’s book, which began, of all places, at a Law Day Dinner at the Waldorf-Astoria. 
After the event, I walked out onto Lexington Avenue to hail a taxi home. It was sprinkling, and the air was cool. As I stood there with my arm waving in traffic, a tall, dark, and handsome Latin Lawyer, whom I had spoken to at one point earlier, materialized from the night. I looked up at him. 
“Can I have your phone number?” he asked. 
I smiled and handed him my card, and then stepped into 
a cab. 
The smile on my face lasted all the way home, and stayed there as I put Basil’s leash on and took him for a walk. I was still wearing my evening attire, including the stilettos. I didn’t care; I was floating on clouds. A woman passing by remarked, “That’s an elegant outfit for walking the dog.” 
I made some joke in reply that I do not remember. The real reason I had not changed out of what I was wearing was because I wanted to live the moment just a little longer. It was almost midnight. There were only a few minutes left of the Cinderella dream that I had just experienced on Lexington Avenue, as the Latin Lawyer kissed my cheek, in the mist. 
The Latin Lawyer and I got together twice after that night. The first time we ended up making out on an island divider on Houston Street, I suppose because we could not wait to cross to the other side. And the second time we were all over each other on East 12th Street near Second Avenue, after sushi. “Get a room!!” a guy walking by yelled to us. As if we cared. 
Midnight struck once I told him about my past. 
He didn’t see that one coming, he said. 
I just smiled. 
* 
Later that month, I rented my first office downtown on Vesey Street. I was in the back of a suite with five other lawyers, one of whom was Louis Freeman, who had been the other lead lawyer along with David Lewis on the trial before Judge Weinstein. Later that summer, Lou would sponsor (or “move for”) my admission to the Supreme Court of the United States. And for the next two years, he would mentor and prod me along whenever I asked for help ~~ and often before I had any idea I needed it. 
Out of the blue, the Goatee Man invited me to go visit vineyards in the Hudson Valley north of Manhattan. I had 
stopped drinking a couple years before because I discovered that alcohol made me tired and depressed. But I was practicing saying “Yes,” and, besides, no one had ever invited me to accompany him on a wine tasting afternoon tour before. So off we went. 
The Latin Lawyer and Goatee Man were my first experiences of dating men whom I just happened to meet out in the world as myself. I was getting a late start at 32 years old, perhaps, but how lucky I was to explore what it was like to be, for a moment at least, what I considered normal. 
I had never wanted to be normal before; now I wanted nothing more. 
The aspiration seemed out of reach in my professional life back then, as I debated talking with other lawyers and, particularly, my mentors, about my gender transition. It had occurred to me that, in conducting my background investigation in connection with the Ibrahim case, the FBI might be concerned that having a secret could render me susceptible to “improper foreign influence,” or blackmail. And so I wrangled with disclosure until I finally decided, What the hell, if I can’t live openly, then what’s the point anyway. 
My mentors ~~ all men at the time ~~ each advised me against speaking publically about the subject. 
“Don’t do that.” 
“I really wouldn’t do it right now.” 
“You’re a little young to throw that into the mix.” 
“Right when you’re just getting started!!” 
Having received all this wise counsel, I turned around and did the opposite. 
One of the lawyers I disclosed to was Andrew Patel. I had been working with Andy on a case in the Southern District of New York that he had inherited from another lawyer, who in turn had inherited it from Henry the Trial Lawyer. Henry had initially suggested I come onto the case to help out, and somehow I had 
hung on. The case was before the Honorable Denise L. Cote, who, I later found out, had clerked for Judge Weinstein; Judge Cote was by this time a senior judge and Judge Weinstein was (and, at the time of this writing, still is) sitting on fully active status. 
If only society could find ways for everyone to be so productive, and for so long. 
Andy and I have had more than one case together over the years. As it happened, one day we found ourselves on an investigation in Trinidad, Colorado ~~ where Dr. Stanley Biber, one of the best-known sex change surgeons in the United States, had lived and practiced for decades. Because of Dr. Biber, Trinidad became known as the Sex Change Capital of the World ~~ a distinction that Andy mentioned during our car ride back to the airport in Colorado Springs. 
“Yes, I know,” I said. “Personally, I found Bangkok to be a better deal, and I got a vacation in Thailand afterward.” 
Andy asked about how my father had reacted to my transition. 
“He refers to it as a ‘mid-stream correction,’” I said. 
Meanwhile, the FBI was continuing its investigation into my background in the course of the National Security Clearance process. I lost track of how many agents and contractors worked on my case. Some interviewed me, others my friends and family. My mom spoke to an agent in Nebraska while she was visiting family there, and apparently the agent said, “I’ve never seen anything quite like this.”  
During one of my own multiple interviews by four FBI agents, I mentioned how I had discussed my transition with my mentors and other lawyers, and it had no effect so far as I could see. I broached the subject, not they. 
For a number of years I assumed that it was interfacing with that bastion of civil liberalism known as the FBI which was, in a way, responsible for me coming out of the closet, or at least 
reaching the point where I lived with a sense of pride. On reflection, I now see that, as much respect as the American Intelligence Community accorded me, it was my own life decisions that had contributed to whomever I had become, and wherever I was going. 
The news that my security clearance had been granted came a few months later. My first thought was gratitude to my recovery program for enabling me to live a life of transparency, without shame ~~ however much I continued to struggle for self-esteem, at least now a sense of approval freed me to live in the present. 
But the dependency I developed on that imprimatur torpedoed me, and, by the following month, the ongoing battle to believe I was worthwhile had obscured whatever progress the clearance symbolized. I woke up every day feeling that I was somehow missing something, somehow falling short of my potential and failing to see how to reverse the spiral. On a phone call with my sex addiction recovery sponsor, I despaired about not working hard enough to materialize my dreams. My sponsor asked me to make a list of my achievements over the past eight years since I had started recovery. 
I began at the beginning: 
 
I got myself into recovery. 
 
I got myself out of dangerous anonymous situations in dangerous places. 
 
I found a sponsor. 
 
I started working the steps. 
 
The list went on for four pages. The “achievements” that 
meant the most to me were the ones that involved serving others or a cause that I believed in, openly and with pride ~~ I wrote about everything from law school to making up with my mom to finishing the 12 steps to starting my own practice to becoming an aunt to making an impact on the law of my county to realizing I have nothing to be ashamed of anymore. 
As serious as the exercise was, it also helped me remember how important it is just to have fun and be human sometimes: 
 
I completed my first 100-mile bike ride. 
 
I have met dozens of men while cycling, dated some of them, and remained friends with several ~~ one of them invited me and a few others to his family’s house in Montauk, and another took me out onto the Hudson in his speedboat and we went swimming in the middle of the river. 
 
Of the latter, I posted on Facebook that I “rode up to Nyack with honorable intentions, and ended up diving from a speedboat into the middle of the Hudson alongside a ripped Canadian man with sun-bleached hair. Zoe-1, Discontent-0.” 
I stared at the list, before me in black and white with no greys, thinking what I imagine my sponsor had hoped I would get to: I have just as much worth and value as any other human being on this earth. The list also contained one item that I clung to whenever I wanted to give up: 
 
I was able to hear my father tell me he is proud of me. 
* 
Over the following two months, October and November 2009, I met a man I’ll call Jorge and fell in love. By that 
point I had given up on finding a boyfriend, so I had just posted a personal ad online for a male cycling partner. We exchanged e-mails and planned to ride together. Then we had to reschedule because he got sick and subsequently had to travel for work. 
The weeks passed, and one Sunday afternoon I found myself contemplating a visit to the Russian & Turkish Baths on East 11th Street between Avenue A and First Avenue. The Baths have been there since 1892; I had lived in the neighborhood on and off for 15 years. Yet my experience was limited to a peek inside sometime during the 1990s, when I saw the admission prices and decided that my student’s budget did not allow such a luxury. 
Now I could afford what before was a splurge. As I got ready to go, my phone rang. It was Jorge. He was standing on the steps of the Baths, where he had just gone for a sweat. 
“I was literally on my way there ~~ for the first time,” I said. 
We met for cake at a vegan place on Second Avenue that I liked, and which he appeared to tolerate reasonably well. 
Our second date was at Mitali East. He was late. But he was a gentleman and walked me home afterward. I stood on the stoop of my building and said goodnight. 
Our third date was at Good Stuff, a diner on West 14th Street that extends further inside the building that houses it than anyone glancing at the façade would expect. I was eating their veggie burger once a week during that period, and I told Jorge he could meet me there since I was planning to go anyway. I wore my Transsexuals Do It Better t-shirt and made a point to raise the subject several times. I did everything I could to push him away. 
It did not work. Our fourth date was cycling on River Road. By then the leaves had changed and the whole road undulated through a sea of yellow. 
Our fifth date was to Mexico. We stayed in a hotel in 
Ixtapa, a resort town just north of Zihuantenejo. How do I know Zihuatenejo, I wondered, trying to jog my memory. Wikipedia had the answer: it is where Morgan Freeman meets up with Tim Robbins at the end of The Shawshank Redemption. 
The weekend flashed by, and, while we were waiting for the car to be retrieved from hotel parking for our drive back to Mexico City, we took a photo of ourselves. It captured the moment of us falling in love. 
The next month, I painted this image from that photo: 
 
 

 
The painting reflects the love I felt just as much as the love I hoped for: a couple weeks before, in the dining room of the big old house in Katonah where Jorge lived while he was in New York for the project he was working on, I had asked him if he wanted to get married. As I spoke, I thought of a part in The Namesake where a woman proposed to a man: “One night, in a taxi stuck in midtown traffic, she had impulsively asked him to 
marry her. Looking back on it, she supposed it was all those years of people attempting to claim her, choose her, of feeling an invisible net cast around her, that had led to this proposal.” 
My surmise of causation was the opposite of this character’s ~~ as much as I longed to be chosen, I chose to believe that I could never be claimed ~~ yet my feelings about propelling fate resembled the resignation to fabricating inevitability that impressed upon my memory from that proposal in The Namesake. In literature, as in life, there is no accounting for associations the mind may make, let alone which ones will stick. 
* 
Marty Stolar had asked me to take a pro bono case before Judge Irizarry in which a group of clients were seeking the return of property the government had seized from them during a 16-hour search of a home in Queens owned by two of the clients. The case would progress swiftly through submissions in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York to the Second Circuit to the United States Supreme Court. 
We were challenging a search and seizure conducted by the government. The underlying search warrant, an exemplar of nebulousness, allowed law enforcement to look for, and take, a host of stuff including “documents and records that constitute evidence of the commission of rioting crimes or that are designed or intended as a means of violating the federal rioting laws” ~~ whatever the hell that meant? 
Sure enough, unencumbered by the fetters of rationality, let alone any guidelines to direct them, law enforcement seized, among other things: personal journals and letters; fiction and non-fiction writings; political posters; and personal, sentimental postcards from husband to wife and vice-versa; not to mention a computer with files that contained urban planning projects including a local community garden, various movies and TV shows, music, personal photographs from vacations and other 
occasions, fiction writing in progress, a design for a new board game, and information and designs for stage magic. 
I was thrilled to be working with Marty again, and it was a textbook First Amendment case. Our argument was that 
 
the warrants authorizing the searches were unconstitutionally vague; the searches and seizures were unconstitutionally overbroad; the government’s seizure, possession or review of petitioners’ thoughts, writings and expressions causes irreparable harm to petitioners’ First Amendment rights because it operates as an unconstitutional prior restraint by instilling fear and icing petitioners’ speech; and, this irreparable harm, which is exacerbated by the government agents rummaging through petitioners’ personal papers absent clear direction about what they may be looking for, violates the Constitutional and Separation of Powers principles [the Supreme] Court has established. 
 
Alas, while I was in Ixtapa with Jorge, I received a voicemail from a clerk at the Supreme Court. The message was that Justice Ginsberg denied an application I had made in the United States Supreme Court several days earlier. The application, which managed to put the case on ice for a minute there, sought reinstatement of a temporary restraining order to stop the government from looking at the materials that law enforcement had seized from my client and others. Justice Ginsburg’s denial resulted in the lapse of the temporary restraining order that Judge Irizarry had initially imposed some time before ~~ so now the government was free to rummage through the possessions they took. 
We lost the battle for the First Amendment but continued fighting the war. A couple years later, the government 
returned the clients’ property, and that was that. 
The voicemail I received in Ixtapa was neither the first nor the last “No” I would hear from the Supreme Court. But this particular denial went further than disappointment ~~ it reached down into the core of an otherwise perfect weekend with Jorge, where the puncture created a sinkhole. I did not have to check my phone that night; I could have just gone dancing as we planned. Instead, I not only checked, I also let the news drag me down: I had convinced myself that Justice Ginsberg ~~ or at least the clerks who defended the threshold of her Chambers from all the cases that came knocking ~~ would want the Court to decide the issues involved because they really mattered. 
Like the loss of innocence from the death penalty trial before Judge Weinstein, this piece of humble pie was a lesson in perspective. Justice may be blind in theory, but her ears remain open to politics as the system churns. 
My heart had yet to harden against the pressure of this reality on the feelings that defined me. Each case was laying another coat of cynicism to protect emotion from leaking into judgment. Yet I refused to believe that the endgame of being a lawyer was resignation. Instead, I chose to hope that experience would train me to cultivate sentiment in my practice like a bonsai tree. 
Inviting the law to affect my humanity had repercussions. As the months rolled on, ambition crept into my relationship with Jorge ~~ a pestilence that ate away at paradise. While opposites attract, likes like alike; and our love arose from both phenomena: he was ambitious, too. So together we stumbled into a tango of the minds to replace the night out dancing in Ixtapa that my preoccupation with work had thwarted. 
* 
As New Year’s 2010 came and went, I grew increasingly concerned about my dad. A condition in his neck required surgery, 
and there was a possibility that he might not walk again. I thought back on my childhood, when he was so active ~~ taking our family on trips to visit Paris, Venice, and Switzerland to visit my Swiss “uncle,” who had lived with my mother’s family in Nebraska for a year in high school, and his family; golfing with my brother; and biking around Yosemite and skiing in Tahoe with me and my brother as we were growing up. 
I also remembered Thailand, when my dad had called me every day. 
This time it was I who called as often as I could after the surgery. He talked about his current marriage, his work, and his plans for the future, which wrenched my heart when I thought about the possibility that, if the surgery went wrong or failed to correct the problem, he might not walk again. Over the following years, he would mount a full recovery, move down to Southern California, and start working in various positions as a semi-retired physician. But, for a while, I sometimes had to mute the phone or hang up early so he would not hear me cry. 
* 
I was invited to submit an application for the Criminal Justice Act Mentoring Program, now in its second year in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The court maintains a Panel, or roster, of attorneys who are qualified to provide court-appointed representation for indigent individuals in federal criminal cases. The Mentoring Program involves pairing experienced members of the court’s Panel with attorneys interested in enhancing their federal practice experience and applying to the Panel themselves. 
I began serving in the mentoring program in early 2010, and my mentors were Edward Wilford, a beloved member of the defense bar who I would like to believe is now defending us all from his spot up in heaven, and the one and only Bobbi Sternheim. Soon enough I was working on cases through the 
program with both lawyers. One of my cases with Ed was United States v. Weaver, et al., a drug prosecution before Judge Pauley, the federal district Judge before whom I had tried my first case as co-counsel to Marty Stolar two years before. Ed and I represented one of the few women, whom I will call Susan Garcia, in a case with dozens of defendants. 
The spring and summer of 2010 passed with work on my Mentoring Program cases and thousands of miles of bike rides north of the George Washington Bridge, sometimes all the way to Bear Mountain, 20 miles beyond Nyack. I was still consuming refined sugar that year, and I started riding earlier in the day just to make sure I’d reach Nyack early enough to get a full selection of muffins at The Runcible Spoon, a coffeehouse popular with cyclists in the area. 
I rode every weekend to battle the onset of depression. Jorge had left New York at the end of the winter, and we had been apart since his departure. The distance strained our relationship, and solitude overcame me. Fucking hell, I was alone again. 
Once again the only way to get out of bed in the morning was to remember what had happened on the Queen Boat. That memory gave me a reason to soldier through the first few hours of consciousness to the point where I could get some work done during the day. Having something to concentrate on outside myself ~~ particularly in the service of others, my clients ~~ kept me going to evening. The doors of business hours were made of mirrors, however, and when they closed, the loneliness would confront me with myself, mummified in the silence of my apartment, until bedtime brought the refuge of sleep.  
As I tried to inject solace into my morning practice, my journal filled up with entries focused on healing. On August 5, 2010, I wrote: 
 
I need to open myself up and allow my sadness out now. 
I do not want to let go. 
I understand that I must let go. 
I do not want to let go. 
I want my happiness back. 
I want to believe that it was all more than just an illusion. 
I want to believe there was once love there. 
I want to believe I was and remain lovable. 
I want to cry again. 
I want to live again. 
I want to feel again. 
I want to feel at all. 
I want there to be something left of me. 
* 
To help overcome the sadness, I turned further into my work. That fall, at Lou Freeman’s suggestion, I joined his partner Lee Ginsberg on United States v. Nelson Solano, a case before the Honorable Laura Taylor Swain in the Southern District of New York. Judge Swain granted Lee’s application for my appointment as associate counsel the Friday before the trial was set to start. I prepared over the weekend. 
As providence would have it, jury selection in the case required more than one day. I seized upon the extra time to prepare some more and convince Lee to let me cross-examine the first cooperating witness for the government 
At the same time, my gastro-intestinal system seized upon the opportunity to make my life misery. Out of nowhere, my stomach began to make noises that could be heard across the courtroom. For a portion of jury selection, we gathered in the Judge’s Robing Room ~~ a cranny that takes its name from the donning of robes, but which, in practice, is often used for conferences with lawyers out of the presence of the jury ~~ and, seated within those four walls along with the Judge, Lee, two opposing counsel, a court reporter, and various prospective 
jurors, who came in for questioning one by one, my stomach went berserk. 
There was just no telling when it would act up. It roared when the Judge spoke, or when a juror was answering a question. It roared when we were waiting for the next juror and the room was otherwise filled with silence. It roared when I sat, and when I stood, and all through jury selection. 
Mercifully, the problem began to calm down once the jury was seated and the trial commenced. But it did not stop altogether. Great, I thought, I’m going to be cross-examining my first witness and my stomach will start roaring in the middle of it. Under the circumstances, I certainly did not tell Lee that the cross-examination of the first cooperating witness was going to be my first cross-examination ever. 
The next thing I knew, the cooperating witness had testified on direct examination by the government, and I was standing up and walking to the podium for cross-examination. 
I forgot all about my stomach. Instinct took over, and it was as though I could feel the blood flowing through my veins and up to my temples and into my eyeballs. I stared the witness down across the courtroom, searching his body language and letting every word sink in. The space between us filled with my questions and the answers he gave, pulled like teeth right out of his mouth. 
My next witness was a former New York Police Officer. During his cross-examination, I managed to get an indictment from the Southern District of Florida into evidence, and the Officer left the witness stand with his hair messed up and a reddened face. 
We lost. However, a few months after the trial, I found out that Judge Swain had written a letter commending my performance at trial to the Office of the Federal Defenders in New York, an organization which handles the representation of 
indigent criminal defendants in Manhattan and Brooklyn. I read it for the first time with Bobbi and Ed. What a relief to discover that the Judge had written only of my lawyering and did not mention how my stomach tried to steal the show. 
I wore makeup in those days, and the mask I offered to the world was an attempt to smooth over the fissures in my emotions. 
* 
Jorge and I were on again. I went down to Mexico to see him; the trip did not work out and I came home early. As a result, I decided to migrate my recovery over to another program focusing on co-dependency for a while. I spent my first meeting of the new program in tears, nine years after I had slunk into recovery for sex addiction in much the same state. 
The help I received from others channeled into my work on behalf of clients. That January, 2011, I handled my first full sentencing before Judge Pauley, in the Mentoring Program case with Ed in which we represented Susan Garcia. She had pleaded guilty to a plea agreement reflecting an advisory United States Sentencing Guidelines range of 188 to 235 months. Drug cases in federal court yield exorbitant periods of incarceration, and my job was to persuade Judge Pauley to impose a sentence closer to the mandatory minimum of five years. 
What is more convincing than the truth? Sharing about my life in recovery meetings with strangers over the years had brought me to understand that vulnerability serves as a conduit for connections with others. Susan’s story could have been a version of my own, but for the grace of whatever force had kept me from tumbling over the edge of that cliff in Petra back in Jordan, and all the precipices since. At the sentencing hearing before Judge Pauley after Ed spoke briefly, I stood up and said: 
 
Your Honor, we believe that what makes Susan Garcia unique 
are the same aspects that make the mandatory minimum of five years the correct sentence in this case. And having to ~~ having come to know Ms. Garcia in some of the ways that Mr. Wilford described, although I came on later to the case, I think two themes are really emerging, and Mr. Wilford talked about one of them, and that’s the evolution that Ms. Garcia has undergone. 
And I think that evolution applies specifically to her experience as a result of this case, and also more broadly it’s a theme that runs throughout her life. And I’ll come back to that in a minute. 
But related to that theme of evolution, the other evolution, the other theme that is apparent in Susan Garcia’s life, is the love that she has to offer and the love that her family feel for her. Now, both of those are intertwined. 
The question that I grapple with here is, well, with previous arrests, what makes this particular instance different? How do we know that these themes are finally coming to fruition in Ms. Garcia’s life? 
And I think the answer to that question lies in the facts and circumstances of this particular case; because in this case, Ms. Garcia’s oldest son, [Juan Martinez], was arrested and implicated in the crime. And I think that that is something that Ms. Garcia will remember tomorrow, the day after, and every day for the rest of her life, particularly in any instance in which her own personal addiction rears its head and provides a trigger for her. She can remember where that road leads. 
I wish that the Court could have seen the love between Ms. Garcia and her son, Juan Martinez, that we were able to see in codefendant meetings throughout the course of the case. And I can say that I can only hope that I have that love in my own life. 
So when Ms. Garcia is faced with choices in her future about whether she should succumb to temptation and return to her own addiction, whether if she does that she should participate in a drug conspiracy as she has this time, that is the memory that she will have, and that is the memory that will ensure that this is the last time that she stands before this Court or any court. 
Returning to the themes of love and evolution. We detail in our 
sentencing submission the instances in Ms. Garcia’s life in which these two themes start to become apparent. And, as we describe, we feel that they were there from the very beginning during her difficult childhood when her father abandoned her mother, and the family was left to subsist on food stamps and slept at various relatives’ houses on the couch and so on. 
But unlike other cases, what Ms. Garcia did, even at that early age, was demonstrate a capacity to evolve and to love. And she endeavored to protect her siblings from the abuse that she had suffered at her mother’s hands because her mother was angry at her father for abandoning the family. 
Those same themes continued through her life. And unfortunately, men, the wrong men, took advantage of her sensitivity, and she met [Jose Martinez]. And I know that we talk about Jose Martinez in our sentencing submission, but the horror that Ms. Garcia experienced at Martinez’s hands is unimaginable, and must be something that we talk about again today. 
Mr. Martinez not only introduced Ms. Garcia to the world of drugs, but he psychologically and physically abused her to a pulp. Nevertheless, Ms. Garcia eventually matured out of that relationship, and the result of that relationship were her two children, Juan Martinez and her daughter Maria. 
And from that nightmare, Susan Garcia has a son whose love for her is so apparent, that anyone can see it; and a daughter whose love is also so strong, that she has written to this Court, that she has spoken to probation about Ms. Garcia, and she said positive things. 
As time went on, Ms. Garcia continued to mature and look at her personal relationships. And the reason that we have to talk about her personal relationships is not only because they are factors to be considered under [the applicable law], but, more importantly, they intertwine with her addiction. And as we argue in our papers, it’s our position that her role in this offense is a direct result of her addiction. 
But as she continued to evolve as a human being, her relationships did get better. Mr. [Ahmed Hameed] was a step up from Mr. Martinez. And Mr. [Gabriel Torres], in his own way and the way that he treated Ms. Garcia, was a step up from Mr. Ahmed Hameed. And that’s what we are here before the Court to emphasize today, when the Court is considering the 
just and appropriate sentence that is sufficient, but not greater than necessary, in this case, because Ms. Garcia was able to evolve through those relationships and improve the caliber of relationships that she had. 
It was her struggle with addiction that led her to stand before the Court today. And it is this case which enables Ms. Garcia to understand that she now has a final chance. And the reason that she has a final chance is because her youngest son, [Richard], is now at an age where he needs guidance and love and support from his mother. Were the Court to impose the mandatory minimum of five years, Ms. Garcia would be released from jail and reentering society with the support of any supervised release conditions and drug treatment programs that this Court would impose at the time when her son Richard needs her the most, in order to ensure that Richard will not end up like Juan Martinez. 
For all those reasons and those set forth in our sentencing memorandum, we feel that a career offender designation is not appropriate in this case. We have discussed the case law and the previous sentences that Ms. Garcia received and served. But I think what’s most important is to convey the love and the evolution that we see from Ms. Garcia for the Court’s consideration in fashioning the appropriate sentence. 
* 
It was early January; darkness had fallen by the time the sentencing was drawing to a close, and the sky outside was black. Notwithstanding the Guidelines range of 188 to 235 months, Judge Pauley sentenced Ms. Garcia to 64 months’ incarceration. 
I walked home in the cold. Would I one day experience the love I had just spoken about in court? I imagined that my mom and dad must feel that love as parents; it ached to wonder whether my selfishness might make me the end of the line of my genetic inheritance. The only fear I feel powerless to vanquish is regret: in my lust to turn over every stone I could find on the globe, had I forgotten to look up and see the world around me? 
The saving grace of working for a living is that rumination takes a back seat to exigency. There was always work. 
A couple weeks prior to the sentencing, I had been appointed to serve on the Criminal Justice Act Panel for the United States District Court across the river in the Eastern District of New York. The appointment meant I would be representing clients in the same courthouse where I had helped pro bono on the death penalty trial before Judge Weinstein, and also where I would come of age on the Ibrahim trial that spring. 
Life outside court felt as surreal as ever; and I had met a new guy friend who invited me down to Puerto Rico for a few days. My mom had taken me and my brother to the Dominican Republic two years before, and I wanted to get away somewhere warm in the winter again because even a few days made January and February in New York almost bearable. The plane ticket seemed like an extravagance, but one that I would not regret. So I decided to practice saying “Yes” again and went. 
My traveling partner had always confined his Puerto Rican vacations to Old San Juan and the resorts along the ocean, but of course I wanted to explore the unmarked areas on the map. So we rented a car and got lost in the mountains that mold valleys of secrets in the center of the island, driving in spirals until a road spit us out on the north coast again after nightfall. 
A month and a half later, in March 2011, I served as co-counsel on a trial with Bobbi and Lee in United States v. Ty Geas before the Honorable P. Kevin Castel in the Southern District of New York. The case involved allegations of organized crime activity by the Genovese Crime Family, and there were charges of racketeering, murders, conspiracies to murder and an attempted murder, and extortion. 
My responsibilities at the trial included cross-examining a former mafia acting boss from Springfield, Massachusetts, where some of the alleged conduct occurred. To deal with that situation, I wore a sparkly mini-dress, a string of chunky faux pearls draped to the navel, and black stockings. 
On the coattails of the trial before Judge Castel, the following week I was with Mike Hueston in the Eastern District of New York before Judge Irizarry. We were picking a jury for the Ibrahim trial. 
The court had summoned hundreds of prospective jurors. Selecting any jury can be a task, all the more so when charges stir emotions, as terrorism cases tend to do. Sure enough, some jury questionnaires contained statements of hatred or prejudice based on the government’s allegations or the client’s religion alone. Still other questionnaires reflected people’s desire to serve on the jury despite experiences that could affect deliberations; even a handful of individuals who lost friends or acquaintances on September 11 said they could be fair. 
What does fairness mean in cases with a political dimension, where the aim of prosecution extends beyond justice to morality ~~ or even spectacle? 
From what I have seen so far, achieving balance in any federal criminal case is an aspiration, and most of the time requires waging a battle uphill. The Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure are written for the government’s benefit, the Federal Rules of Evidence are construed to the advantage of the prosecution, and the criminal law itself is designed to swallow human conduct like a black hole, subject to little more than the discretion of the United States Attorney’s Office that brings the charges to begin with. 
As a saying in the profession goes, a federal grand jury will indict a ham sandwich. 
The wildcard that trumps all other hands in justice is the presiding judge. The decisions at trial that really count, evidentiary rulings, that is, decisions on what comes into evidence and what stays out, are by and large a matter of the trial court’s discretion. Everyone understands that the likelihood of any particular ruling being disturbed on appeal might as well be zero: even when a trial 
court is wrong, federal courts of appeal will, in most instances, apply a standard known as “harmless error,” an analysis that involves smudging over deficiencies at trial with other evidence of guilt. All of which is to say that the power of trial judges lies in their ability to shape prosecutions.  
What I want to share with you are examples of this mechanism at work. So here is what happened at the Ibrahim trial ~~ all of it: 
 
The Trial
Background 
 
This case revolves around a professional government informant who essentially recruited a disgruntled aging former JFK Airport employee into a farfetched plot to blow up fuel tanks at JFK Airport ~~ an idea which became known as the “chicken farm.” The informant, Steven Francis, and his cohort, codefendant Russell Defreitas, embarked on a series of trips from New York City to Defreitas’s home country, Guyana, indiscriminately trying to recruit additional participants along the way. Early on, they claimed to be seeking Adnan Shukrijumah, an alleged al-Qaeda operative suspected to be hiding somewhere in South America. But, like Defreitas’s frequent rants and indeed the plot itself, their puffery came to naught. 
While in Guyana, Francis and Defreitas managed to enlist codefendants Abdel Kadir and Abdul Nur. Kadir was a politician and businessman. He would later equivocate regarding the plot, only to be arrested and prosecuted at trial. Nur, an ineffective wannabe, also cancelled or fell through on plans designed to further the plot at various points, though ultimately he did appear to go along with Francis and Defreitas’s overall effort ~~ at least once they offered him a free airline ticket that the United States government paid for. 
Nearly a year and a half into the plot, after nothing had happened, Francis and Defreitas decided to travel to Trinidad. There, they intended to pitch the plot to Yasin Abu Bakr, the leader of the Jamaat al-Muslimeen (“JAM”), a social and political organization involved in Trinidadian politics. JAM was involved in a violent coup in Trinidad in the 1990s. 
Francis, Defreitas and Nur arrived in Trinidad in May 2007. Up to this time, 20 months after Defreitas and Francis began their endeavors together, there had been no mention of Kareem Ibrahim by anyone. Ibrahim was a pillar of the small, tightly knit Shiite Muslim community in Trinidad. Although Francis and Defreitas did not plan to stay with him, a man who had informally studied religious matters with both Kadir and Ibrahim met Francis and Defreitas at the airport, and they went to Ibrahim’s house. 
Ibrahim was on the nearby island of Tobago and returned the following day. Francis and Defreitas told Ibrahim they were “traveling in missionary work to raise monies to build a mosque in Guyana” and wanted to meet Abu Bakr to ask him for funds. At some point, Francis and Defreitas went to JAM to meet Nur. 
Because the evidence against Ibrahim ultimately does not withstand scrutiny, it is necessary to discuss the handful of interactions that he had with Defreitas and Francis in detail. 
 
The Plot Is Pitched to Ibrahim in His Own Home 
Late one night during Francis and Defreitas’s stay, as captured on a recording introduced by the government at trial, Defreitas pitched the plot to Ibrahim, with no notice to Francis. Defreitas told Ibrahim that Kadir had no part in the plot, and then played amateur footage of JFK Airport. After the video was played, Ibrahim stated, “Gentlemen, this plan may work.” 
At trial, Ibrahim testified that he was concerned for the safety of his family that evening. There had been no discussion of plot logistics or what “this plan” was during the video footage. Defreitas mentioned benzene and gasoline tanks, but he provided no further detail ~~ he only talked about detonating explosives later on, after he and Francis explained to Ibrahim that they wanted to present their plan to Abu Bakr. At that point Ibrahim endeavored to dissuade them from doing so: “…I cannot say any Shiite movement ready to, in Trinidad, to deal with something like [the plot]…” 
Defreitas then suggested establishing “connections to the Far East…” Ibrahim stated that his own international contacts were limited to organizations that provided religious books and literature. Francis persisted and asked Ibrahim about making a contact in connection with the plot. Pressed by Francis, Ibrahim responded: 
 
See what I can do. Maybe even a local contact, you know. And me already open a movement ready to deal with something like that, you know? Because I know that ~~ we are gonna make the international contact that be ready, right, for something like that. Why I say that is ‘cause these are big people. Um, what I could get it, I could get it sold, you know. I’m sure they got they own contacts, you know. 
 
The discussion continued: 
 
[Francis]: “I want to ask you a question, Sheikh. Um, I want to know if you have the ability to actually, or you have knowledge of someone that have the ability to pull this, this thing off or, or at least ~~ 
 
Ibrahim: I do have contact with people. 
 
[Francis]: Huh? 
 
Ibrahim: I do have contact. I do not have contact with people who ~~ 
 
[Francis]: You don’t or you do? 
 
Ibrahim: No, I don’t have contact with people who have the ability. Um, but I understand one of our organization which is from writing, from books. In the Shiite, world, there’s just one or two scholars pass through here since we been here as Shiites. And in my home, one of the brothers pass for three days, four days until this scholar come and really encourage us. But they not interested in encourage us about it. They not interested in something like that, right? I will have to ask, gotta be somebody from the, from the state that pass through here, from the leadership there. And I will talk to them. I will say I have this, you know. And the same thing you do, I try to do to them. And leave them contact with Iran, you know. 
 
There was no evidence that Ibrahim ever spoke with, or even reached out to, anyone from the “leadership” in Iran. 
 
The Following Day 
 
The government introduced a recording that Francis made of a conversation between himself, Defreitas, Nur, and Ibrahim, the day after Defreitas pitched the plot to Ibrahim. During this conversation, Francis called Kadir because, in Francis’s words, “[Kadir] was expecting, um, something else, and 
now something else took place…” Ibrahim spoke to Kadir briefly. The only evidence regarding the content of Ibrahim’s conversation with Kadir is a statement by Ibrahim that Kadir “appreciated” Defreitas’s “view” and said to take care in proceeding. 
Ibrahim testified at trial that he made a series of efforts designed to divert the plot. For example, after Francis had called Kadir, Ibrahim proposed leaving the plan with his “trusted security” who would “never know who you all are…” On direct examination, Francis testified that Ibrahim never told him who Ibrahim’s “trusted security” was. The following day, over the defense’s objection, the prosecution asked: 
 
Mr. Francis, in government recording 425 that we played yesterday, there is a reference that Mr. Ibrahim made to his trusted security. I believe you testified yesterday your understanding was that trusted security was [Michael Selim Smith (“Selim”)]; is that right? 
 
To this question, Francis now responded affirmatively. 
As the recorded conversation went on, Ibrahim mentioned a Muslim brother in England and proposed off-shore banking. Consistent with Ibrahim’s non-involvement, there was no evidence that Ibrahim knew Kadir had previously opened a mosque bank account to be utilized in the plot (though apparently it never was). Nor was there any evidence that Ibrahim knew about the development of the plot to date: indeed, he proposed that a buyer interested in the plot could go to Guyana to meet Kadir. 
Later, Ibrahim described how the Shiite Islamic movement in Trinidad was floundering, and discussed the importance of building Islamic institutions that the community lacked, such as hospitals and schools. At this point, Francis called 
Kadir because Ibrahim had not mentioned to Kadir “that there was, there was some process going in, in that aspect…” Francis then told Kadir that Ibrahim was concerned about scams in connection with large amounts of monies, even though Ibrahim had expressed no such concerns and had twice disclaimed participation in plot financing arrangements. 
The closest that the discussion came to plot logistics was when Defreitas talked about “ninjas” engaging in unspecified activity at the airport on a cold night. Although fuel tanks at the airport were the basis of the plan to detonate explosives, and Defreitas had focused on the tower in the group’s discussions, Ibrahim asked whether the tanks were guarding the tower, instead of vice versa. 
Meanwhile, Ibrahim asked for a blueprint of the airport (which, he testified, he would procure in order to destroy), and stated the plot would take a “long time…” As the conversation proceeded, Ibrahim took further measures to protect against becoming incriminated with Francis and Defreitas: Ibrahim proposed everyone would be known as “Abdul” in communications. He also suggested changing cell phone SIM cards to avoid tracking. There is no evidence that Ibrahim, Francis, Defreitas or Nur took either of these steps. 
 
The Cooperating Witness Pushes the Plot Before Departing 
 
The government introduced a recorded conversation between Francis, Defreitas, Nur, and Ibrahim at the airport in Trinidad, as Francis and Defreitas were returning to the United States. During this recording, Francis initiated a conversation about the plot. Ibrahim mentioned sending someone on Hajj [annual Islamic pilgrimage], but Francis was concerned that Hajj was not until next year and suggested Umrah [Islamic pilgrimage at any time]. 
Returning to the proposal regarding an individual in England, Francis asked about communications. Ibrahim obfuscated, then said that the individual had just left the country. In a similar vein, Francis asked whether all Ibrahim needed to do was secure passage to Umrah and then on to Iran; Ibrahim appeared to concur yet he subsequently asked Defreitas when Defreitas was going on Umrah. 
Ibrahim then discussed other subjects, such as traveling as a Muslim and tourism in Tobago, until Francis interrupted and volunteered to do research on Umrah from England to Mecca and buy the necessary tickets. Impatient, Francis stated, “[the individual] just gotta go in the airplane…” Ibrahim equivocated in response, saying he would talk to the individual back in Trinidad, while also suggesting a meeting in Tobago. 
Pushing on, Francis asked whether the group wanted to set a date. Ibrahim said the individual would need to come back first. Defreitas told Ibrahim that Ibrahim had decisions to make and there was no time to waste. Still, no timetable was set. 
 
The Cooperating Witness Persists from New York 
 
Before returning to New York, Francis left the amateur video and a Google map of JFK Airport, which he had obtained before coming to Trinidad, with Ibrahim. Consistent with Ibrahim’s testimony that he destroyed these materials, they were never recovered although Trinidadian police searched his home. In the meantime, after Francis and Defreitas returned to the United States, they called Kadir. The three men talked for over twenty minutes and Defreitas mentioned an engineer, but there was no discussion of the Umrah proposal or any specific action Ibrahim was to take. Kadir mentioned he had known Ibrahim since 1978, however, there was no evidence at trial that they spoke or saw each other since at least 1998. 
Francis and Defreitas then called Ibrahim. In a conversation lasting less than three-and-a-half minutes, Defreitas told Ibrahim that Francis and Defreitas had tried to reach Ibrahim and he was “hard to find…” (Indeed, at one point, Francis and Defreitas had to track down Ibrahim using his daughter’s phone, when he did not answer his own.) Ibrahim deflected Francis by stating that Selim was willing to go on Umrah, but his passport needed to be renewed. 
The following day, Francis and Defreitas briefly called Ibrahim again. Francis inquired about the engineer from England. Ibrahim responded that he did not bother to contact such an individual because Selim decided to go on Umrah. Two days later, when nothing had developed, Francis called Selim to “congratulate” Selim on the decision to go on Umrah. Francis offered to give Selim money to renew his passport, yet Selim declined. Francis asked Selim whether Selim knew his purpose for traveling, to which Selim responded that he and “the Sheikh” had spoken already. 
Francis called Selim again less than an hour and a half later. In response to questioning by Francis, Selim said he had not seen the video but had seen the map. Further, Francis asked Selim whether Selim was taking a blue-print of the chicken farm on Umrah, and Selim responded he was not. 
 
The Defense Case 
 
The defense called Ibrahim’s longtime friend and former Trinidadian police officer and internal investigator George Alec Burns, Ibrahim’s daughters Ayesha Ibrahim and Huda Ibrahim, and Ibrahim’s ex-wife Tammy Bedlow-McKell. Burns and Bedlow-McKell testified to Ibrahim’s reputation for nonviolence and religious tolerance. Ayesha and Huda testified about their experiences growing up in the Ibrahim household, their 
interactions with Francis and Defreitas, and Ibrahim’s nonviolence, religious tolerance and hospitality as a Shiite Muslim. 
Ibrahim testified on his own behalf. He testified that he burnt the materials Francis and Defreitas gave him in the back yard of his home. Ibrahim also testified that he was concerned for the safety of himself and his family and hoped the plot would fizzle out. Although Ibrahim was stopped from testifying about a variety of material issues, the heart of his testimony remained constant throughout: “It was never my intentions [sic] to attack JFK Airport.” 
 
Inconsistent Prosecutorial Theories 
 
Kadir and Defreitas proceeded to trial prior to Ibrahim’s trial. Based on the evidence at the Kadir/Defreitas trial, prior to Ibrahim’s trial, Ibrahim sought to compel the government to state whether it would argue or imply at his trial that he wanted to send out to Iran anyone other than severed codefendant Kadir, as the government argued on rebuttal at the codefendants’ prior trial. Ibrahim explained that such an argument contravened an allegation the government previously made in paragraph 58 of the Complaint as to Ibrahim’s alleged role in the offense, which, taken in context, alleges that Ibrahim chose Selim ~~ who, to reiterate, had no passport or means to travel abroad. 
Ibrahim explained that this information was necessary to determine whether: (1) a motion to admit the government’s prior argument as an admission by a party-opponent pursuant to [a particular Rule of Evidence] was in order; or (2) a due process issue stemmed from the use of inconsistent prosecutorial theories… 
When the government opposed Ibrahim’s application, Ibrahim asked the court to compel the government to produce Selim for trial because his testimony was necessary in light of the 
government’s inconsistent theories. The district court denied Ibrahim’s request, thus permitting the government to argue two inconsistent theories at two different trials. 
 
Appeal 
The Issue: Ibrahim’s Right to Testify Was Improperly Curtailed 
 
Ibrahim was convicted and sentenced to life in prison. On appeal, he argued that the district court improperly curtailed his right to testify at numerous points. Among other things, the court stopped Ibrahim from testifying about: (1) his own prior affidavit in support of his opposition to extradition from Trinidad, which the government introduced in heavily redacted form on cross-examination and later used to argue to the jury that Ibrahim had lied on the witness stand; (2) aspects of his relationship with Kadir, including knowledge of conspiracy logistics ~~ even though the government was permitted to question Ibrahim extensively about this topic; and (3) pertinent aspects of his intent generally. 
With respect to the affidavit, after precluding Ibrahim from testifying on re-direct to contextualize his own statements, the court permitted the government to question Ibrahim with its version of the affidavit again on re-cross. The government was permitted to question on the affidavit at length, over repeated objections by the defense, for five transcript pages of testimony. 
During both summation and rebuttal, the government used the fragments of Ibrahim’s affidavit that the prosecution had selected to argue that he lied to the jury: 
 
Ladies and gentlemen, the lies that Kareem Ibrahim told you from that witness stand prove, if nothing else, that he had something to lie about. And it wasn’t the first time he’d lied under oath about his involvement in this 
plot. He admitted to you that he lied in his affidavit to the Trinidadian court, his sworn affidavit. 
 
Yesterday on cross-examination, he was asked whether it was true or that immediately after he was told about the plot he told the plotters: “No, I’m not getting involved.” And he said: “Yeah, actually, that wasn’t true.” In fact, he did say he’d get involved. 
 
He admitted that he previously lied under oath about this, and he lied again to you from the witness stand, and the reason he lied is because he can’t tell you the truth…  
 
…He was confronted with his prior sworn statement, when he had said under oath in Trinidad that he refused to be involved in the conspiracy. He swore under oath that he was sleeping at the house, Defreitas woke him up, pitched him the plot, and he said “not on your life.” You know that from [the redacted affidavit].… 
 
The affidavit establishes otherwise. The parts that were not allowed into evidence are italicized. The full paragraph at issue, which was kept away from the jury, states: 
 
I have a very clear recollection of telling them they cannot do that. Brother Muhammad [Defreitas] told me all he needs was six men. He said he just wanted to meet Yasin [Abu Bakr] for him to find a buyer. I told him Yasin would not deal with that. Muhammad asked me how much he could get for the project. I hesitated, but saw the aggression in [Francis’s] face. I told him no more that [sic] one million. 
 
Taken in full, Ibrahim’s unredacted description of the 
conversation is consistent with the evidence at trial. As the recordings reflect, Ibrahim did indeed dissuade Francis and Defreitas from presenting the plot to Abu Bakr. 
The balance of Ibrahim’s affidavit likewise aligns with the evidence. Paragraphs following the paragraph above that were kept from the jury state: 
 
Brother [Francis] said that I would have to find a buyer, I said that I didn’t know a buyer, I never traveled to the Middle East and I don’t know any terror organization. I did say that if someone went to Hajj [Islamic pilgrimage to Mecca] they could find a buyer, the buyer can see your product and they could do whatever they decide. 
 
Brother [Francis] and [Defreitas] insisted that I had to get a buyer, and it was in those circumstances I suggested they leave the plans with me so I could organize to see if I could get it sell [sic]. I told them it would be safe because I would sent it to [the nearby island Tobago], they gave me the pictures and the video and closed off. 
 
During the time of their departure and the time of my arrest, they called a few times. I remained in fear of having those articles with me, so I destroyed it [sic]. 
 
The government also introduced these two sentences from Ibrahim’s affidavit, again without any context: 
 
That the US Authorities have selectively edited the extracts of the taped conversations to distort my involvement, and has [sic] failed to produce a comprehensive and balanced account of my conversations which would if had been done [sic] would 
have illustrated that from the moment I was told of this plan I indicated that I could not be part of this plan. This would be reflected on the recordings. 
 
As before, the redacted portions provide context necessary to understand these assertions. Subsequent paragraphs, also redacted from the version before the jury, state: 
 
That Brother [Francis] despite being aware that I was not interested in the plan persisted in:- 
 
Encouraging me on or about the 23rd May 2007 to communicating with others who might be interested after I had indicated my unwillingness to be involved. 
 
Expressly asking me to introduce them to the Jamaat al Muslimeen leader Yasin Abu Bakr for him to find a buyer. 
 
From my interaction with these individuals, it was Brother [Francis] and [Defreitas] who originated the criminal plan and sought to implant in my mind their criminal design and then sought to induce me to participate in their plan so that I could be prosecuted. 
 
That not only was I offered the opportunity to be involved in the plan but I was actively pursued despite my clear indication that I was not interested. 
 
These statements, like the prior ones, accord with the sequence of events adduced at trial: Ibrahim deflected Francis and Defreitas from Abu Bakr, and he offered up an “emissary” to Iran without a passport or travel funds. These obstacles were Ibrahim’s 
way of declining to further the plot ~~ his way of buying time as Francis and Defreitas tracked him down using his daughter’s phone, after Ibrahim did not answer his own. 
In sum, the jury never heard testimony from Ibrahim that “telling them they cannot do that” related not to the facts co-opted by the government’s arguments, but rather to the question of whether he would take the plan to Abu Bakr. Further, the jury was prevented from hearing testimony from Ibrahim that his statement about indicating he could not be part of the plan was made in the broader context of Francis and Defreitas’s persistence in contacting him. As a result, Ibrahim was stopped from testifying about the dissonance that the government created between his statements in the Trinidad affidavit and the recordings at trial ~~ while the government used its creation to argue that Ibrahim lied. 
* 
The jury convicted Ibrahim on all counts. The United States Probation Office recommended a sentence of 40 years, but Judge Irizarry imposed life in jail. When the case went up on appeal, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit did not address Ibrahim’s right to testify; instead of dealing with this constitutional problem, the appellate court hid behind the “rule of completeness,” a legal concept that, in essence, enables courts to maximize evidence against a defendant while minimizing evidence that the defendant can introduce in response. In due course the Supreme Court of the United States denied certiorari, declining to hear the case. 
And so the door closed on the matter without Ibrahim’s side of the story ever being told in full. The government had shut him down, and the courts had complied. 
Well, so what, you may say, terrorism isn’t fair and therefore retribution need not be, either. But consider the principle at the heart of it all: imagine a prosecution arising from 
the work of a confidential informant in which you were stopped from testifying about your own prior statements, even the tidbits that the government cherry-picked to use against you at trial. 
Do we believe in hearing the whole truth only when it suits us? Underneath our deference to the rights for which Americans through history have shed blood and died, do we countenance lip service to ideals that paste over reality with words, words, words? 
In my personal life, the loss of innocence had come in dribs and drabs, one interaction at a time. My heart cracked many times before it broke, and then healed, only so that it might break again someday, and heal once more ~~ over and over, in a process of growth. 
The loss of innocence as a lawyer, on the other hand, was the loss of the presumption of innocence ~~ as soon as it was gone, it was gone forever. If I felt empty inside years ago after the disillusionment set in from working in the theater, when I felt alone in Egypt without purpose, or whenever this or that experience had doused my fire, now the emptiness expanded into a void.  
2. 
 
June 5, 2013. New Orleans, Louisiana. The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. Oral Argument in Trottie v. Stephens, the death penalty case to which I had been appointed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas over four years before. 
The case involved allegations of a double homicide: 
 
On the night of May 3, 1993, petitioner Willie Tyrone Trottie arrived at the residence of his ex-common law wife, Barbara Canada, with whom he had a child. In the months prior, their relationship had been passionate and psychologically distressing for them both. Barbara had left Trottie, and, at one point, she obtained a restraining order against him. She continued to see him on a regular basis, however, visiting his family and even traveling and having sex with him. 
During this turbulent period, Barbara was living with members of her own family, including her brother Titus Canada. Barbara’s family knew about the rocky relationship that she had with Trottie and naturally had a negative view of him. Indeed, earlier in the day on May 3rd, Trottie came by the Canada residence to see Barbara, and Titus confronted Trottie with a gun. Trottie had his own gun and left before the situation escalated to violence. 
In a misguided attempt at reconciliation, Trottie returned to the Canada residence later that night to talk with Barbara. Members of Barbara’s family were there, including her mother and sisters. These individuals would later give various accounts of what happened after Trottie arrived, in statements given to the police as well as through testimony the prosecutor elicited from them on the witness stand at trial. Nevertheless, a common thread emerges from their conflicting versions of the events: in the course of gunfire between Trottie and Titus in 
which Trottie was wounded, Trottie shot Titus and Barbara, and they died. 
* 
The march of time from my appointment in Trottie to my client’s execution over five years later proceeded at a tempo that started out with deliberation and then sped up as the courts blasted through the issues to accelerate the imposition of death. 
But first let me go back. My story is now in the spring of 2011, just after the jury returned their verdict in the Ibrahim case. Over the eight months preceding the Ibrahim verdict, I had been on three month-long federal trials: the Solano case before Judge Swain, the Geas racketeering case before Judge Castel, and Ibrahim before Judge Irizarry. Geas had come up so close to Ibrahim that I did not know whether the Geas jury would render a verdict in time for me to join Mike Hueston and pick a jury before Judge Irizarry in Ibrahim. 
The result was exhaustion to the bone. But the face of livelihood lies in appearances, and I still felt enough spark to ignite the pilot light of ambition whenever it went out. 
I attended the annual Law Day Dinner at the Waldorf-Astoria as usual. This year I knew more than one person there, and I chatted with more than one federal judge. I saw the Latin Lawyer; we kissed politely on the cheek. I had yet to feel at home in the waves of lawyers and judges everywhere, but by this point I was swimming among them. 
These eight months, and in particular the last eight weeks on the Geas and Ibrahim trials, weighed on my spirit. There had been convictions in the trials all around, except for one of the murder counts in Geas to which my cross-examination of the former mafia acting boss had been directed. Aside from that count, my only other success, if it could be so called, had been surviving long enough to keep trudging the road toward the respect of the bench and the bar, to whatever extent possible. I 
was beginning to hold my own at Law Day, for example, but would the results I could achieve in court follow? 
Not immediately. I came down with a summer cold after Ibrahim, and went to the Russian & Turkish Baths to decompress. There I met another criminal defense lawyer who happened to be schvitzing that night. I was so out of it that I did not realize a string of snot had swung out of my left nostril and up onto my cheek ~~ until he took pity on me half-way through our conversation and pointed it out. 
I gave up waiting to feel better and within a few days began studying for the July 2011 California Bar Exam. The test is considered the most difficult bar exam in the country, and so I was irritated I had not done it. I bought the Barbri course book, but I decided against signing up for the class since I still had to run my law practice. Once again I found myself among the hordes of people toting Barbi materials around the city, as I studied my outlines walking down the street, on the subway, and in Tompkins Square Park ~~ at some of the same spots where I had studied for the New York Bar Exam five years before. 
The isolation of these activities caused my feelings about Jorge to bubble to the surface. We had been off-and-on for the year-and-a-half or so since he had left New York, and had only seen each other a couple times. We continued to talk on the phone, though, and it was the longest period I had ever remained in communication with a man with whom I had fallen in love. Not knowing what else to do, I made another painting, this one of a moment from an afternoon in Zihuatenjeo: 
 
 

 
* 
I registered to take the California Bar Exam in Pasadena so I could combine the test with a trip to Los Angeles. As engaging as the last spring, summer, fall and winter in New York had been, whatever experiences I managed to enjoy were tempered by the memory of bloodying my leg with that slip on the footbridge over the FDR two years before. Summer nights were no longer made beautiful by ephemerality like the jinn singing in Cancun; they were just a prelude to being stuck indoors in freezing weather while the sun set in the middle of the afternoon for six months straight. I was trying to learn more and more about LA, one trip after another. 
The week before the California Bar Exam I gave myself a one-day respite on Fire Island. A friend invited me along with several other women to celebrate her going-away party on the beach. 
I had gone to Fire Island the year before for an 
afternoon by myself; I had never been asked to go with friends before. The experience had seemed out of reach for me. Fire Island was all about New York glamour, while I had always traveled to the edges of the globe on a shoestring. Plus I never imagined fitting in. 
As usual, my preconceptions had prevented me from appreciating life for no reason. Once I got over myself, there I was with friends for an afternoon, hanging out on the beach and swimming topless in the ocean, just like everyone else. 
Out in California, I thought of lemmings as we all filed into the Pasadena Convention Center ~~ which, in a twist of the irony that spices life, Jorge worked on renovating and refurbishing as an engineer ~~ and here was a reincarnation of the experience at the Javits Center for the New York Bar Exam years prior. 
Except I loved taking the California Bar Exam. Without the stress of needing to pass, I had been able to concentrate on studying the material for enjoyment, and I found that the process of getting ready for a bar exam after having practiced for five years expanded my view of the law and how I approached legal questions in my cases alike. I went running and took a hot bath in the mornings before heading over to the Convention Center for the test. And, in this fashion, one day in Fire Island combined with studying and sitting for the bar exam to be my vacation for the summer of 2011. 
* 
My practice had lulled while I focused on studying. By the time fall arrived, I had received five case assignments through the CJA Panel for the Eastern District in New York, and only one case remained active. To save money, I moved out of the suite with Lou, worked from my apartment for a month, and then rented a small glass bubble at WeWork, a “collaborative workspace” in a building on the border of Soho and Chinatown. 
The decision to leave Lou’s suite agonized me. His 
mentorship had given me encouragement at every twist and turn along my journey as a solo practitioner for three years. Had I been making just a business decision, I would have given notice cancelling my lease several months prior; instead I hung on for as long as my finances would allow it. I did not want to leave the suite. 
I spent October wondering whether I would have to go back on the cabbage diet at some point. Since I still had a year-long pass for the Russian & Turkish Baths, I drowned my anxiety in the steam room and cold plunge pool. I had become friends with the other regulars, and we shot the shit whenever we saw each other. One night I was talking to a friend, whom I’ll call Jim, and I decided to talk about my past. 
“No way,” he said. “You’ve got to meet my friend. He’s transgender too. Or transsexual?” 
“I don’t really know,” I said. “I can’t keep up with all the terms myself.” 
“Well, whatever, you guys totally need to meet.” 
Then, all of a sudden in early November, my practice exploded. 
Following a number of arrests in the Eastern District of New York, I was assigned to eleven federal cases in three days. The charges ranged from Hobbs Act Robbery to Medicare fraud to a “death-eligible” murder case, that is, a murder prosecution in which the client could potentially face the death penalty. Some of the cases involved arraignments while others involved substitutions for prior counsel, and I ran from one courtroom to another to make my appearances. 
Two weeks later, Jorge left in the middle of a visit to New York; we had argued yet again over formalizing our engagement. He kissed me goodbye as I sat in the same spot where Reza kissed my forehead goodbye, two-and-a-half years before. 
After wallowing in my woes for a couple days, I found out that I had passed the California Bar Exam. The next steps would be to get admitted to practice, begin developing a network, and, once I had worked through the cases I had just been assigned in the Eastern District of New York, apply to the CJA Panel in the Central District of California. The project seemed like a monolith of marble to carve. The memory of cleaning blood from my leg over the FDR was the chisel. 
Daydreams about improving my standard of living would take a breather on the sidelines not just because my prior cases continued to consume me, but also because, on December 5, 2011, my practice mushroomed again: I was assigned to represent former police detective Stephen Caracappa in habeas proceedings before Judge Weinstein. 
Mr. Caracappa and Louis Eppolito had been convicted at trial in 2006. Here was the case that New York Magazine had described as “what’s widely been called the worst scandal in the history of the New York Police Department.” 
By the time of my appointment, the case already had a history. Following the trial, Judge Weinstein had granted a judgment of acquittal on statute of limitations grounds ~~ basically holding that the charges were brought too late. But the government had won an appeal, and the Second Circuit had reinstated the verdicts. Notwithstanding his prior dismissal of the case, Judge Weinstein had then sentenced Mr. Caracappa and Mr. Eppolito to life in prison. 
The habeas petition I submitted on Mr. Caracappa’s behalf involved allegations that a Special Agent of the FBI was an alternate suspect for murders of which Mr. Caracappa and Mr. Eppolito had been convicted: 
 
Petitioner Stephen Caracappa worked as a Detective in the New York Police Department (“NYPD”) for many years. In 
2006, he was convicted at trial of a racketeering conspiracy involving multiple murders for the Lucchese Crime Family. Subsequently, information about an alternative suspect ~~ disgraced former Federal Bureau of Investigation (“FBI”) Special Agent (“SA”) R. Lindley DeVecchio ~~ appeared in an autobiographical book that DeVecchio published. 
At Caracappa’s trial, the government had sought to preclude questioning that would have implicated DeVecchio as an alternative suspect. Specifically, the government stated there was no information that DeVecchio knew about or spoke to Lucchese Crime Family member Anthony Casso ~~ an organized crime figure who was central the government’s theory of the case. 
Certain passages in DeVecchio’s book belied the government’s statements. Indeed, DeVecchio described an encounter with Casso which contradicted the information provided by the government. 
This new evidence goes to the heart of an alternative suspect defense, and it cannot be said that the result of trial would have been the same had the information been presented.
* 
The way things were shaking out in my law practice, there seemed to be one case that changed me every year, each experience peeling away another layer of innocence so that a stronger exoskeleton could replace the last one. The lumps I had taken as an associate and then a solo practitioner had culminated in disgust at the unfairness of how the application of federal criminal law railroaded Ibrahim at trial. Now, over the first half of 2012, it would be the Caracappa case that impacted my perspective on the world. 
I woke up thinking about the case at night. This time my thoughts ventured beyond legal issues to the role I played representing defendants in criminal prosecutions. 
Alone in bed, three feet from the ceiling above the 
sleeping loft in my studio apartment, I wondered about my safety in light of the accusations that the petition I was drafting lodged against SA DeVecchio. I was developing allegations against him. Would the evidence I had marshalled for these arguments put me in jeopardy? Did doing my job put me at risk? 
Unlike my peers who worked as colleagues in the Federal Defenders Office or as adversaries in the United States Attorney’s Office, I was on my own without an institution behind me. If I were ever in danger, whom would I ask for protection? 
Law had become life. I looked up from having my nose to the grindstone to see that barriers between work and individuality had blended. The Caracappa case overflowed from my own little universe of thoughts to the reality that practicing law can be just as much about politics as justice, if not more. I was quoted in the press on a ruling by Judge Weinstein; and I had to wrangle with the court on the payment voucher I submitted for my work on this behemoth of a case. 
Meanwhile, I visited the California Bar website and stumbled upon a discovery that changed the way I saw myself as a lawyer. I posted about it on Facebook: 
 
I just discovered my responses to both of the Performance Test Exercises for the July 2011 California Bar Exam were selected as model answers. 6,312 people took that exam. I am crying because nine years ago my Torts professor Marsha Cohen told me not to give up so easily when I was flunking out of law school. #nevergiveup 
 
True to the rule of inverse proportionality, my personal life was a mess. Jorge and I were back in touch. I went down to Manzanillo in Mexico to meet him for what was meant to be a romantic getaway in a hotel on the coast of the Pacific Ocean. 
Alas, the weekend was captured for me in this photo: 
 
 

  
On the way back from a trip cut short, I had a stopover in Dallas. At Customs, the Officer inspecting my passport bellowed: “WHERE WERE YOU!!” 
“Mexico,” I said. 
“WHAT WERE YOU DOING DOWN THERE!!,” the Officer screamed. 
“Visiting my ex-boyfriend,” I said. 
He slammed a stamp onto my passport, and then dismissed me with a wave. 
My heart sank as I thought about the environment in which the next generation are growing up. Will they ever know how it felt when Customs officers greeted Americans, smiled, and said “Welcome home”? 
Home indeed. My final destination was New York in February. It was freezing cold, and I was alone once again. At least 
I had my cases to occupy my mind, and clients who needed my help. 
* 
Being of service in my profession got me through the daytime, one day after another after another. Each morning I thought of the Queen Boat to remind myself why the rule of law needs advocates and therefore there was a point to my existence. Yet I could not shake the feeling that I must be alone because there was something wrong with me. For the next seven months, I would go to bed every evening and wake up every morning thinking about suicide. 
I did everything I could to snap myself out of it. In March I made an effort to concentrate on all the love that I had experienced, rather than what I had lost, and I posted a note on Facebook: 
 
Love, in Moments 
 
Tomorrow I turn 35 years old. Who the hell knows what to strive for from here on out. While there are no answers, only questions, a breakup last month helped me realize the only thing that really matters in life is love. I shall always treasure these moments ~~ they make everything worth it. 
My first kiss, beneath the awning in between classrooms at Roosevelt Jr. High School. 
Just being next to the first girl I fell in love with, as the sun rose ~~ every time. 
In the middle of an orchard with the boy my parents hated, explaining to the police why the windows of the car were all fogged up. 
Reenacting When Harry Met Sally with the actress from Miami, in spots all over Paris. 
On that bench in the West Village with my first 
boyfriend, when he remarked on the nape of my neck. 
Covered in chicken feathers with the Guatemalan, in the bus back through the mountains to Antigua at 5:00 a.m. 
Reflecting on life with the little Latin filmmaker, tucked away in a hotel room in Venice. 
Relaxing under the Manhattan Bridge with the Latin accountant who had an Italian name, after a night of clubbing. 
Shirtless on a dance floor in Chelsea, with the 23-year-old banker. 
Holding hands with the Yemeni, on a cliff overlooking the Mediterranean. 
Coffee with the Iraqi fighter jet pilot, in a bed beneath mirrors suspended from various angles overhead, as Shenkin Street woke up outside. 
Driving around my hometown in a convertible that warm summer night with a high school crush, except this time as an adult. 
Underneath an umbrella in Hell’s Kitchen with the Guyanese, during a snowstorm. 
Sitting with the Lebanese stud on the edge of the bed in a bombed-out Beirut hotel as the Europeans arrived, pretending like nothing had just happened. 
Watching a Richard Pryor scene, over and over again, with the Egyptian and his ten roommates in Sharm el-Sheikh. 
On the patio in Modesto with the Mexican waiter. 
Laughing at Arabic jokes with the Iraqi, in bed in a hotel in Athens. 
Riding bikes in the Castro with the San Franciscan. 
With the spy at a sawdust-floor bar in Cairo, when he wiped a crumb from my cheek, and I knew the love of my life would become a memory. 
Sunbathing in Dolores Park, with the Mexican student ~~ the one human being who literally ran after me. 
The first time the Persian Jew said I Love You. 
Diving off the side of a boat with the Canadian pilot, into the middle of the Hudson River. 
Hailing a taxi outside the Waldorf-Astoria, when the six-foot-three Latin in a tuxedo approached me through the mist. 
Falling in love with the Mexican in Zihuatenejo, where The Shawshank Redemption ends. 
On Avenue A and East 9th Street, as the Ukrainian scooped me into his arms and over a bank of snow. 
An almost-kiss on the Williamsburg Bridge. 
At the Russian & Turkish Baths, when the Haitian thug opened his Rodin-sculpted hands to reveal two pink rosebuds wrapped in wax paper. 
At the top of the stairs in the backyard, with the Lebanese U.N. worker who had rollerbladed over just to say Hi. 
Gazing up at the Krishna Tree in Tompkins Square Park, when all of a sudden the raw vegan grabbed me and we kissed. 
In all the places of the world I’ve been to…learning to accept my unconventionality and coming to believe surprises will continue to unfold. 
* 
Once again, the mask I put on with this list of memories was more than an expression of what I wanted myself to be than what I felt. I needed to exercise the muscle of believing that I was just as deserving of love as anyone else. 
This seed of hope sprouted the following month, April 2012, at the Russian & Turkish Baths, where Jim happened to be celebrating his birthday. He was holding court in one of the sauna rooms with a group of guys and girls spread around him, talking and laughing. One of them was a man I had never seen before, and I could not take my eyes off him. I clasped Jim’s arm. 
“Oh, my God,” I said, “the guy who was next to you, he is the most gorgeous man I have ever seen.” 
“Really?” he said. 
“I could go home with him right now, date him, marry him tomorrow, become friends or never see him again, and it would be the same. I just love him.” 
“So, yeah, he’s the transgender guy I wanted you to meet,” he smiled. 
“Are you fucking kidding me?”  
I marched out of the room and up the stairs to the roof deck where the party had migrated. I tapped the gorgeous guy on the arm. 
“Excuse me,” I said. “My name is Zoe and I think you’re incredible.” 
“I think you’re incredible too,” he responded. 
 I’ll call him Orlando, since I’ve always loved that name. Orlando invited me out to see a movie later that week. We Need to Talk About Kevin, Lynne Ramsay’s masterpiece about a disturbed child played to perfection by Ezra Miller and likewise his tortured mother by Tilda Swinton, may not be everyone’s pick for a first date, but I was transfixed. Orlando walked me home afterward, and texted the next day. I had a nice time with you last night, he wrote. 
That weekend we rode bikes in Prospect Park, lay on a hillside together, and ate Moroccan food afterward. Soon he told me that he was not romantically interested, but could we be friends? 
Of course we could be friends, I said. And so we were. 
Orlando did not know the impact he had had on me until a year later ~~ it was summer, and we were chatting at a rooftop party on St. Mark’s hosted by another friend from the Baths. 
“The thing is,” I said, “you taught me that I am lovable.” 
“Of course you’re lovable.” 
“Shut up, just listen.” 
And thus I shared how when I first met him, I thought he was beautiful and wonderful, and I wanted to get to know him 
from the start. Then I found out he was transgender and nothing went away, in fact I was even more interested. I’d fallen in love since my transition but I don’t think I believed it ever, not really. But now, since I had feelings for Orlando, it stood to reason that someone could have feelings for me. 
* 
A few weeks later, May 11 was going to be the eleven-year anniversary of the incident on the Queen Boat. Devoting my legal career to the pursuit of justice seemed inadequate to express the fire that had dwindled but still smoldered within me. Desperation to believe in something led me to wonder whether finishing my play might serve as a prayer I could make on Mahmoud’s behalf? At least then the effort to create remembrance in art would have been made. 
Now, over a decade after I had begun working on the play, I experienced two breakthroughs. First, I came to understand that the major dramatic question revolved around the main character completing a mural ~~ the same one that I had painted at age 17, during my final months in high school. 
The second discovery involved what I came to accept, at last, as the heart of the play: an inquiry into the theme of consent in sex. I had danced around this subject in prior versions, attempting to impose layers of significance onto a moment that needed to breathe without obstruction. My avoidance must have been why The New Group fell out of love with the play, or maybe I did, or both. 
None of those obstacles mattered anymore. I careened through the revisions to reach the climax of the play, and shivers overcame me as I walked right up to the demons inside and reduced their power over me into dialogue. 
When it was done, I sent a package in the mail to Kevin Spacey: 
 
May 11, 2012 
Mr. Kevin Spacey 
The Old Vic 
The Cut 
London SE1 8NB 
 
Dear Mr. Spacey: 
 
Thirteen years ago, I saw your production of The Iceman Cometh on Broadway. Afterward, I gave you a note outside the stage door as you were signing autographs. The play’s general manager Abbie Strassler left a message on my answering machine three days later. With your help, I saw Iceman almost a dozen times. 
Two years later ~~ and eleven years ago today ~~ Egyptian State Security Police raided the Queen Boat, a floating discotheque on the Nile. They arrested 52 men, including a friend I have neither seen nor heard from since, for the crime of being gay. 
Witnessing the arrests motivated me to write the enclosed play, Adrift on the Nile. I first drafted it while studying Eugene O’Neill’s complete works. An Internet search in connection with my studies led me to your eulogy for Jason Robards in The New York Times. When I read that you “must have seen a dozen performances” of Iceman with Mr. Robards, I knew I would one day write this letter to you. 
Adrift is an ensemble piece about a young Egyptian artist’s struggle to finish a mural that narrates his story of overcoming the past to accept love. A print of the 18-foot original oil on canvas, which I painted, is enclosed. 
My name may seem new to you because I gender-transitioned in the years after I handed you that note. Meanwhile, I became a lawyer defending individual rights in honor of my 
friend on the Queen Boat. Now that Adrift is ready, my dream is to see it produced, with your help. In appreciation, I am and will remain, 
 
Sincerely yours, 
Zoe Dolan 
 
 

 
* 
I never heard back from Kevin Spacey. But I did not need to ~~ I had wanted only to touch my dream; in the end my dream had touched me. 
Or so I convinced myself. 
Of course there is another portion of the dream ~~ what happens after midnight. I could no longer deny that experiences with intimacy bled into the rest of my life. As those fantasies crumbled, so too the aspirations that underlay them succumbed to reality. The only hope was to accept the way things are. 
I had tried to see my play through to production, and I had failed. On the plus side, acceptance invites serendipity to do its work. 
On June 1, 2012, I was admitted to practice in California. A few weeks later I went out to LA to network and experienced a day to remember. In the morning I did my favorite run in Elysian Park, followed by a meeting in West LA for a civil case with co-counsel who just happened to be in Los Angeles that week. Afterward it was lunch with a law school classmate in Venice, then coffee in West Hollywood with my sex addiction recovery 
sponsor, whom I had not seen in person in seven years and who just happened to be in LA that week as well. Then it was Bikram, followed by an event where I recognized a guy by face but not by name. 
His name is Sean, and he and I went through our chronologies trying to figure out how we knew each other ~~ until at last we realized we went to law school together. He had graduated a year before I had. 
“You may not have remembered me because I was male-bodied when you first would have seen me.” 
“Oh,” he said, “I didn’t remember that. I just knew I recognized you.” 
Sean and I would stay in touch, and, two years later, I would send him an e-mail the month before relocating to Los Angeles, asking whether he knew of somewhere I could live. As it turned out, a friend of his was leaving a little house in Echo Park, a neighborhood where I had felt at home the instant I exited the 101 on my first exploratory trip to the City of Angels back in 2011, and, the way it shook out, my new home base would come available the very day that I arrived. 
In the meantime, that fall of 2012, my brother and I went to Nebraska for a family reunion that my mom had organized. As we drove through God’s Country on the four-hour trip from the Denver Airport, Taylor Swift’s song “We Are Never Ever Getting Back Together” came on the radio. 
“You know who this song is about?” my brother asked, looking over at me as we sped along the highway. “Fucking Jake Gyllenhaal.” 
“Seriously?” 
I had no idea whom the song was about, nor do I still. But I did download it that evening, never fathoming what Taylor Swift would come to mean for me three weeks later. 
Later that day we arrived in McCook, a town of about 
8,000 in southern Nebraska, where we had whiled away so many summer afternoons on visits as children. With the exception of one or two new restaurants, nothing had changed so far as I could remember. 
I believed, however, that I had. My extended family in the Midwest and I had not seen one another since my gender transition, and I fretted that awkwardness would prevail, especially with the new husbands of my cousins, whom I’d be meeting in person for the first time. 
So I stepped into Grandma’s house ~~ long since occupied by my aunt and uncle and their family as Grandma had moved first to the house where they had started out as newlyweds, and then on to assisted living ~~ aware of my heartbeat. 
If anything had changed between us, or if my transition had upset anyone in the family, no one showed it. And when the new husbands hugged and kissed me on the cheek, I just smiled since I could not speak from being choked up inside. 
A day or two later, Grandma served as the Grand Marshall of the McCook Heritage Day Parade. She got out of her wheelchair for a picture with me and Mom in front of the law office that Grandpa had founded in 1961, now home to my uncle’s practice in Grandpa’s memory: 
 
 

 
* 
The following month, Hurricane Sandy devastated the East Coast, including downtown New York where I lived. I wrote a note in Facebook: 
 
The depression was paralyzing most mornings. 
It hadn’t been that bad since I ended up in the hospital back when I was 18. Day after day, month after month, all summer for the first time ~~ even though summers are supposed to be better ~~ it just got worse as the year progressed. And I couldn’t explain it. On the outside everything was bananas, while on the inside I felt so terribly alone and unable to reach through to other human beings. 
Then the hurricane came. 
That morning, the East River was already six or seven feet higher than normal. We waited all day. The storm seemed to take so long in coming that our building residents decided to get together for a party in the late afternoon. Everyone thought I was nuts for worrying that the water would come up our street. I moved my files and my paintings up from the basement anyway. 
The threat became real as we realized Sandy was going to collide with a Nor’easter during a full moon and make landfall at the moment of high tide in a spot on the planet where two rivers meet the ocean ~~ as if the universe wanted to demonstrate the capabilities of its precision. 
No one thought the water was going to come from Avenue C. It’s west of Avenue D, which is the last Avenue before the FDR running along the East River. Avenue D was in Zone A, but the intersection of Avenue C and our street is in Zone B. So when a mattress came floating down Avenue C, our jaws dropped. 
A number of us on the block were in the middle of the street watching the water approach when there was an explosion at the power plant nearby. The sky lit up all white, then everything went dark. The air filled with screams. 
The weather at that moment was pleasant. It was in the low 60s, and the wind had died down and the rain had stopped. The only difference between then and any other late October night was the water rising on the streets. 
It came up to our building stoop. It cascaded over into the well, broke the basement windows, and poured inside downstairs. By then I was moving everything inside my apartment to the second floor. 
Except for some artwork and my laptop, all the possessions I would wish to keep are stored in moveable boxes from the Container Store that stack into “furniture.” I've always wanted to be able to move out in less than an hour ~~ just in case. Perhaps it’s the cynic in me, an older version of the 23-year-
old who decided to pack up into two suitcases and learn how to survive working abroad ~~ again, just in case ~~ because Weimar Germany was a highly progressive society and look what happened there. You just never know, and I want to be able to turn on a dime. 
I moved my apartment to the second floor in 20 minutes. 
And then I sat in the home I had just emptied out. I thought about how easy it would be to walk outside, head over to Avenue C, and just lie down, breathe in, and float away. No one would ever know how it happened ~~ and I could go away forever, without violence to my family, without anyone ever really knowing the truth. 
But then I thought about whatever it was inside me that had reacted to preserve the life I had built. After all, I moved my wardrobe upstairs because I wanted something to wear to court. When I’m on trial, I want to have variety, since jurors scrutinize what lawyers wear, especially a woman, and they notice when an outfit is worn twice. 
An hour later, I put my foot in the water outside. I realized it had gone down about two inches. High tide was receding. I cried. 
The following day I wandered the city until I found a payphone to call my mom. After spending the night on auto pilot, I allowed myself to break down for the first time. The water came a foot or so away from the apartment floor. This 400-square foot rectangle ~~ which somehow “costs” more than a five-bedroom home with land in some parts of the country ~~ is all I own in this world. 
I cannot imagine how it feels for those whose homes were taken away. I risked everything in pursuit of the American Dream, and I am sure many of them must have too. 
The cab ride to my brother’s in Queens reminded me of 
Egypt and Lebanon ~~ Egypt because the streetlights don’t work in Cairo so everyone has to drive without them ~~ and Lebanon because crossing from the powerless zone into electricity was like going from the former Green Line to East Beirut. 
I realized the importance of family in times like these when my sister-in-law already had the air mattress blown up for me upon my arrival, even though it was the afternoon. I did not have to fight back my tears because playing with my nieces made my tears go away. 
At that moment, I understood why people have children. I had not known before. 
The horrible part of the next couple days was the powerlessness ~~ literally and figuratively. I texted all my friends and e-mailed all my colleagues. I could think of nothing else to do, and I wanted something to do so badly. Anything. 
I hope I remember that feeling next time I find myself wanting to complain about being busy. 
At last the roads cleared up so I could make it into Manhattan. I cried walking through my neighborhood. There was junk everywhere, there were machines pumping water up from all the basements, so many trees were missing, and this film of filth covered the sidewalks and the streets ~~ like the pictures I see of muddy towns in Afghanistan after conflict. 
I don’t know if anyone else has ever fumigated a basement listening to Taylor Swift. Not only did I match my respirator to my top, I cleaned up sewage contamination peering through fogged-up goggles wearing a flashlight on my head while bopping around to a bunch of peppy nonsense. 
And sure enough, the experience made me realize how critical peppy nonsense actually is. 
I could go on about each time I cried ~~ each time I saw something like the trucks giving out free meals, the generators in the neighborhood where cell phones could charge for free, the 
candles in the bodegas, the civilians directing traffic and the cars stopping at intersections with no lights ~~ or the overall feeling of safety despite how easily it all could have gone to hell ~~ or how my building banded together to get through each step of the process ~~ or how the messages I received included notes from my law school dean, a client convicted for crimes most people would rather not talk about, and a prison guard who once asked me out on a date ~~ 
I could go on ~~ but I think my cab ride home sums up the whole week for me. The cabby engaged me in conversation about the hurricane, starting with how it was for his mother, an elderly woman who lives on the 11th floor of public housing. I responded ~~ partly because he was cute, but mostly because I've discovered the value of talking about the feelings we are going through as a city. 
At some point, I explained how my perspective changed two years ago when I had bed bugs. I got rid of more than half of my stuff because I realized I didn’t need it. “I don't care what I lose now,” I said, “all I care about is whether I have my health.” 
“It’s good that you understand that,” he said, “it makes you rich.” 
We were crossing the Williamsburg Bridge. I looked out at lower Manhattan, sparkling with clarity in the light, and thought about what a gift it is to be alive. 
Our co-op members will work on the building some more tomorrow. For now some of us are headed out to dinner together. I was not quite as alone as I thought, and I never completely lost connections with other human beings as I imagined ~~ I just took it all for granted to the point where any meaning in life was hidden, as if deep under water. 
* 
The destruction caused by the hurricane snapped me into gratitude for the gift of life, a reminder of humility that 
vanquished my depression. At once I was thankful for everything that had made me miserable, simply because I was here on this earth to experience it. 
Later that month, on November 25, 2012, The New York Times published a piece by Benjamin Weiser, “Terrorism Law Is a Niche for a Deepening Pool of Defenders in New York.” The article discussed a number of lawyers with terrorism case experience including me, and Andy Patel and I were featured in a photograph in the print and online versions of the newspaper. 
Ben’s article mentioned that I speak Arabic and have lived in the Middle East; he did not get into any personal details about me, let alone my transition. How encouraging that the Times took an interest in work that I was doing, and that the paragraph-and-a-half about me had focused on my credentials and professional experience as a lawyer. Even more so, it moved me that I had been included among a group of lawyers whom I had looked up to for years. 
Aside from everything else, there was also the reason that I had agreed to be interviewed and showed up at the courthouse for a photograph: so that I would be able to show it to my parents, and especially my dad. 
The universe is fucked up and beautiful. A couple months later, I chanced upon another experience involving someone I had looked up to, this time since I was a teenager. It was February, and I was uptown to meet a friend at the Armory for Ann Hamilton’s hypnotizing installation the event of a thread. As a downtown girl (Do I need my passport to go north of 14th Street?), I forgot that the 4/5 train does not stop at 72nd Street, and, after I overshot my destination on the express, I decided to walk down from the express stop at 86th Street rather than swing back on the local. After all, I thought, have I ever walked down Lexington up here? 
I don’t think I ever had. 
Somewhere in the 70s, I saw a woman draped over the 
arm of an older man. What a cliché, I thought, this is the Upper East Side. The man was staring at me, so I stared at him, too. As we passed one another on the sidewalk, I realized it was Woody Allen, whose movies had inspired my move to New York 19 years before. 
A cliché, I thought, I came to New York for a fucking cliché. 
Indeed. I had been keeping a journal in which I wrote at least once every two weeks, and often every morning, for years. But then, at least as of this writing, my last journal entry was April 1, 2013, and the last line was: I want to move to LA. 
Would I miss New York? I had, after all, lived there on and off since age 17, when I was forming as a human being. I had fallen in love in the City, been heartbroken, pursued my ambitions, and touched my dreams; more recently I had found a Spanish book club near my glass bubble office in Soho that I attended every week; and soon I was to discover and feel at home from minute one at 5Rhythms dance class ~~ a practice based on exploring energy in motion that would save me from myself at least a couple days a week; also, I had made friends at the Baths; I was fortunate to have connections in my profession; and meanwhile I was meeting new people, for example the Ghanaian guy whom I encountered over sushi and ended up making out with on the grass of the central lawn in Tompkins Square Park beneath the light of the moon on a perfect summer evening; plus, that evening in the park was only one of many, including another that I wrote about on Facebook: 
 
Last night I lost my wallet in the park. I went back to the central lawn where I was sitting to find it and encountered a homeless guy there. I hesitated to say what I was looking for but gave in because I needed help. We searched for an hour...and I even checked his area when he wasn’t looking, because I was suspicious of 
him. Just as I was giving up, I went back to a bench in another area where I had been sitting, and, sure enough, my wallet was there ~~ with everything in it. I went back to thank the homeless guy for helping me, and I laughed, saying that in the process of looking for my wallet, I had lost my keys. He asked whether they had a bunch of “do not duplicate” inscriptions? Turns out he had found those fucking keys in the middle of a great big lawn in the middle of the goddamn night, with no lights in the vicinity. Then he asked me whether I had lost any jewelry? I said, “No, I don’t think so,” but then he asked, “Are you sure?” “Well, actually, yes.” ~~ my watch and rings were in fact gone from my backpack. I gave him some money and thanked him, assuming that he had taken the keys and the jewelry when I wasn’t looking, just to get a reward. But then, on the way home, I thought about the sequence of events, and I realized that, based on where he had found the keys and my jewelry, they had fallen to the ground when I emptied my backpack in search of my wallet. Thank you, Universe, for reminding me never to make assumptions about people simply based on appearances, and for the kindness that keeps the world turning in spite of my own petty suspicions…. 
* 
Where would I find such experiences if I left the city? Was I really thinking of abandoning the life I had striven for over the course of two decades, and moving on? And for what, exactly, beyond another dream? Perhaps an answer to such questions would lie in another Facebook post a couple months later: 
 
Q:  You exercised 10 hours today? 
A: Yes. Yoga, running/skipping/jumping/cart-wheels at the 
track, 2 hr. dance class, 40 mile bike ride. 
Q:  Did you take a break? 
A:  I stopped for a smoothie in the middle. 
Q:  Do you do this routine often? 
A:  I try to do it every Sunday with good weather. 
Q:  Why? 
A:  So I don’t have to think about my problems. 
Q:  Does it work? 
A:  Like a charm. 
Q:  Don’t you think it’s a defense mechanism? 
A:  Yeah, probably. 
Q:  Do you care? 
A:  Not really. 
Q:  How does it make you feel? 
A:  There are usually several points during the day when I feel like I am flying, and any sense of loneliness, hurt from broken dreams and sadness due to the passage of time slip away, and a rush goes through my body and it just keeps coming, sort of like the power of life exploding in wave after wave repeatedly, an ongoing full-body orgasm basically, and nothing seems to matter except what is happening at that moment, and I am overcome with gratitude that I am alive, in this body, on this earth, experiencing a miracle. 
Q:  What are you going to do in winter? 
A:  Move to LA. 
 
But I am ahead of myself. A few months after that April Fool’s Day journal entry about moving to LA, I was on a bike ride to Nyack, when, at a pit stop, I checked my e-mail and saw that I had received something about being on TV to discuss legal aspects of the Boston Marathon bombing incident. I glanced through it and deleted it as spam. 
A couple hours later, I went into my trash folder, retrieved the e-mail and saw that it was sincere. The following day, 
I was on television for the first time. And then again. And then again. 
This time, it was for my mom. 
It was in this period that a friend from high school, whom I’ll call Layla, died unexpectedly. Layla had a tendency to turn everything she touched to grace, and she had achieved success in many areas of life by her mid-30s. When she passed away, she left behind a husband and a baby, and family and friends and colleagues who adored her. I was in LA and made arrangements to fly up to the San Francisco Bay Area for the memorial service. 
I had not seen most of my high school friends since graduation. At LAX, I met up with my closest friend since seventh grade, Jordan, and my second grade crush, whom I’ll call Joshua. I had been in touch with Jordan, but not Joshua, since the paths of our lives had diverged. Now here we all were. 
“I had so many questions for you,” Joshua said to me as soon as Jordan got up for the restroom and left us alone at the departure gate. “But as soon as I saw you they all just went away.” 
“That’s usually what happens,” I said. 
After the memorial service, our group of friends gathered to remember Layla and kick around old times. It seemed to me fitting that, in death, Layla had brought us all together just as she had inspired us in life. 
My first grade crush, whom I’ll call Kurt, gave Jordan, Joshua, and me a ride to the airport for our flight back to LA. We reminisced some more about Layla, and how much her dying just totally fucking sucked, until our emotions were too exhausted from the loss to continue and someone said, “So, who do you guys think has changed the most?” 
“I win!!” I exclaimed. 
There was silence in the car for a moment. 
Then Kurt said, “You know, I don’t think Zoe’s really 
changed at all.” 
“Yeah,” Jordan said. “You really haven’t.” 
Joshua agreed: “Sorry.” 
* 
The following month, on June 5, 2013, I was in New Orleans, Louisiana for oral argument in the Trottie case before the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. There were three main legal issues: (1) the failure of Trottie’s trial lawyer to provide effective assistance of counsel in accordance with the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States; (2) a miscarriage of justice because the State of Texas had failed to turn over potentially exculpatory material to the defense as required by law; and (3) prosecutorial misconduct. As my filing in the Supreme Court would later state: 
 
Petitioner Willie Tyrone Trottie was convicted and sentenced to death in Harris County, Texas, for the deaths of Barbara Canada and her brother Titus Canada. Barbara and Titus died during a shootout between Titus and Trottie. The State’s theory of the case was that Trottie planned and premeditated the deaths of both Barbara and Titus in the months prior. At trial, the prosecutor made multiple references to excluded evidence of home-made recordings of phone calls involving alleged threats by Trottie. Meanwhile, one of the State’s witnesses stated to the prosecution that Barbara “probably did mess with [Trottie’s] head a little” ~~ and the State withheld this statement for 16 years until after the state courts had reviewed Trottie’s case. 
Contrary to the evidence before the jury, testimony from at least eleven uncalled witnesses establishes that Barbara maintained an ongoing, romantic relationship with Trottie in the period leading up to the incident. In addition, the record contains discrepancies between eyewitness testimony and forensic evidence concerning who fired the first shot ~~ Trottie or Titus. 
Trial counsel failed to present a defense and mitigation based on these grounds, and Trottie timely raised an ineffective assistance of counsel claim. Applying a preponderance standard of review instead of the correct outcome-determinative “reasonable probability” test, the state court failed to address the fundamental issue: the inadequacy of trial counsel’s investigation. 
* 
The District Court below had denied the underlying habeas petition in its entirety. At argument in the Fifth Circuit, while questioning the State’s counsel, the Honorable Jennifer Walker Elrod stated the following about the performance of Mr. Trottie’s trial counsel: 
 
So we don’t look at that just fresh ourselves and say, Gosh, he should’ve, he should’ve argued, um, self-defense because th-the second, the fact that Titus shot him, he should’ve really argued self-defense, that was foolish, we can’t look at it just straight up like that… 
 
I mean, would you agree that there is room for disagreement here, that if you would have been the lawyer, you certainly would have considered that, and we know he didn’t prepare much...but that still doesn’t mean you lose, but, I mean, this is not “There’s no evidence that he should have done something different. 
 
Nevertheless, nine days later, the Fifth Circuit would issue a 33-page decision effectively affirming the District Court’s denial of the petition. The next year, after the Supreme Court had denied certiorari, Mr. Trottie’s execution would be set for September 10, 2014. 
  
3. 
 
August 17, 2014. Santa Monica, California. Dinner with my buddy Jordan, who was moving with his family to Japan in a couple weeks for a professorship there. It was a bit of a bon voyage to him, and very much a celebration of the 25th anniversary of our friendship. We were living in the same city for the first time in 20 years; fate showed no mercy in cutting our time together short. 
The sadness of life, for me, is in how consciousness will tend to hold appreciation of moments back from coming into being until they have already passed. The year before dinner with Jordan, shortly after oral argument in the Trottie case, I traveled back to Nebraska for my grandmother’s funeral. She had died just a few days shy of her 95th birthday. All of her children made it to the service, and almost all of the grandchildren and great-grandchildren were there, squirming on the pews. 
As my brother and I drove back to the Denver airport afterward, I wondered whether this trip would be the last time I would ever visit McCook? Would I ever see the snow cone truck outside the swimming pool where we spent so many summer days, or smell the metal rocket tower in the playground nearby that gave off the aroma of piss, other than in memory? 
Over the next few months, I wound up three cases that had been pending in the Eastern District of New York. In the first case, my client had pleaded guilty to illegally reentering the United States. After the plea, however, the defense requested, and then received, confirmation from the government that the client had previously testified before a grand jury in the Eastern District over 14 years before. I made a motion to withdraw the plea and dismiss the indictment on statute of limitations grounds, and the case was dismissed. 
What a delight to make a case go away after the client 
had already pleaded guilty. 
Two other cases, drug matters, were resolved that fall. One involved a client who had cooperated with the government, while the other had not. The sentencings were scheduled for the same day, and I walked both clients out of the courthouse, one after the other. Based on then current figures for the cost of imprisonment, with initial mandatory minimums of five and ten years, respectively, I estimated the taxpayer savings to be at least $412,500. 
A month and a half later, I received a letter informing me that I had been appointed to the Criminal Justice Act Panel for the United States District Court for the Central District of California. I began making to-do lists and getting ready to become bi-coastal. Four years and about nine months after I had slipped on the ice on the footbridge at East 6th Street over the FDR, I would be going home to California. It was time. 
Before I left, one day I ran into someone I did not expect to see again. I was getting out of the subway at Grand Street in Chinatown, on my way back from Brooklyn, where I had been visiting clients at the Metropolitan Detention Center. The temperature inside the jail is either way too hot or way too cold, and the hallways reek of rats. Despite the crowds at rush hour, I was happy to be coming home rather than going there. 
As I trudged through the throngs of people toward the stairs, I recognized a man from the crowd and put my hand on his arm. It was the homeless guy who had found my watch, jewelry and keys on the lawn in Tompkins Square Park the year before. “Oh, wow,” he said, “yes, I remember you.” I hugged him and asked him how he was doing, and where he was staying now? 
And thus I learned that he had been in recovery for meth addiction for the past several months, trying to get his life back together. We chatted briefly, and I gave him my card. I think of him whenever I handle a sentencing for a client who has pleaded 
guilty to a crime that was committed due to addiction. That subway encounter intertwines with my own recovery to remind me to look past the allegations and the harshness of the law to the human beings I represent. 
* 
Winter 2014 had arrived. I was preparing for trial in United States v. Sulaiman Abu Ghayth before the Honorable Lewis A. Kaplan in the Southern District of New York. Mr. Abu Ghayth, a son-in-law of Usama bin Laden, was charged with conspiring to kill Americans and conspiring to provide and providing material support to alleged terrorists. The government’s theory at trial would be that Mr. Abu Ghayth “recruited” al-Qaeda members by speaking on the videos shown around the world following September 11, 2001. 
Several months before, back in May 2013, when I first filed a notice of appearance on behalf of Mr. Abu Ghayth, the government had submitted a letter to the court, which stated, in part: 
 
The Government respectfully writes to inform the Court that defendant Sulaiman Abu Ghayth now has retained an additional attorney, Zoe J. Dolan, Esq., who filed a notice of appearance yesterday. According to the Court’s Classified Information Security Officer, Ms. Dolan is eligible to be cleared to receive classified discovery upon a briefing by the Classified Information Security Officer, which briefing can take place as soon as Ms. Dolan is available. Ms. Dolan’s co-representation of the defendant eliminates the possibility that, as discussed at the conferences in this matter on May 15 and 21, 2013, none of the defendant’s lawyers would be able to review classified discovery. The government is aware of no conflicts or other issues that would require further 
proceedings prior to the appointment of Ms. Dolan as counsel for the defendant. 
 
As the case progressed, there were pretrial litigation and hearings over the summer and into the fall. The trial start date was pushed back more than once for various logistical reasons. 
A week or so before jury selection, The New York Times published a profile of me by Ben Weiser, “Terror Case Has Lawyer With Several Distinctions.” It began: 
 
When the terrorism trial of Sulaiman Abu Ghaith, a son-in-law of Osama bin Laden, begins next month in Manhattan, his defense team will include one lawyer with a particularly interesting background. 
Zoe J. Dolan is proficient in Arabic, has lived in the Middle East and is the only member of the defense team with a government security clearance, entitling her to review classified discovery materials in the case and attend classified hearings. 
But Ms. Dolan, 36, has another distinguishing attribute: She is transgender, an aspect of her personal life that she says she has not raised with Mr. Abu Ghaith or any other client. 
 
I had barely slept more than two hours a night before the profile came out. The reason I agreed to go ahead with it was to get in front of my gender identity on my own terms, without disturbing my clients. I wrote about why the issue bothered me in a blog on The Huffington Post after the trial: 
 
As an attorney, my main concern was that my gender transition could be used against my clients. In the beginning I thought that an adversary might use my past 
to gain an advantage. After that anxiety went away, I worried that declining to be open would jeopardize the security clearance I needed for certain cases due to the potential for blackmail. Eventually, on higher-profile matters, I feared that the media would sensationalize my gender identity to the detriment of my ability to provide legal representation. 
 
Speaking publicly meant flying like a moth at the flame, and the proximity had singed away the inhibitions I wrote about. Now I entered the courtroom feeling as if I had gone back to visit my elementary school as an adult: everything seemed smaller. 
One of the witnesses I examined at Mr. Abu Ghaith’s trial was an individual who testified about statements that Mr. Abu Ghaith had made to law enforcement after his apprehension. The lessons of the Ibrahim case remained imprinted in my mind, and, this time, I litigated the issue by seeking admission into evidence of the client’s statement in its entirety. 
The motion I filed summarized the background of the statement and the content of the statement itself, which tells the client’s story through his own words: 
 
Background 
 
…Mr. Ghaith was apprehended in a foreign country and transferred to the United States by airplane. United States law enforcement personnel questioned Mr. Abu Ghaith during the course of transit, which lasted approximately 14 hours. Although accounts of exact interview break times vary somewhat, the questioning appears to have been conducted over a period of approximately 11 to 12 hours. . . . 
 
Mr. Abu Ghaith’s Statement 
 
At the outset, according to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (“FBI”) 302 [form] prepared in connection with the interview, Mr. Abu Ghaith stated, “I am willing to tell you anything and will not hold back. I will be honest with you. Through your questions, I may have questions.” . . . The interview ranged over a variety of subjects including: 
 
Mr. Abu Ghaith’s unawareness of any current or pending threats against the United States; 
His personal life, family, and background; 
His custody in Iran generally; 
His Miranda rights; 
His interest in learning, events in Bosnia, and the Taliban; 
His travel to Afghanistan for 20 days in June of 2001, when Usama bin Laden asked to meet with him; 
His views on Usama bin Laden, including their differences; 
His travel to Afghanistan in July of 2001, when he brought his family to live in a house in Kandahar; 
His awareness of al-Qaeda training camps, though he did not attend them for training; 
A request by Usama bin Laden to teach at the “House of Pomegranates,” which Mr. Abu Ghaith did not have the opportunity to do; 
Speeches that Mr. Abu Ghaith gave at training camps to provide spiritual advice, and his belief that there is an obligation in Islam to prepare oneself for defense and to train as any nation trains its young people for defense, though not all camps teach the correct ideology; 
A request by Usama bin Laden for Mr. Abu Ghaith to join al-Qaeda, which he declined; 
An agreement by Mr. Abu Ghaith to offer his services as a religious scholar and orator for al-Qaeda; 
His refusal to provide “bayat” [a pledge of allegiance] to Usama bin Laden, except for a personal agreement concerning religious matters and oratory; 
The September 11, 2001 attacks, of which he was unaware beforehand; 
His view on why Usama bin Laden wanted to bring him into al-Qaeda for intra-political reasons; 
[Former al-Qaeda suspect] Abu Hafs Al-Mauritani and his reputation, though Mr. Abu Ghaith recalled meeting him in June 2001 but did not get to know him until they were in custody in Iran together; 
Events on September 12, 2001, and Mr. Abu Ghaith’s agreement to give a speech that day on video about the events on September 11, 2001; 
His participation in three to four other videos; 
An explanation that the speeches in these videos were based on bullet points provided by Usama bin Laden; 
A further explanation that the videos were shot before the arrest of [convicted shoe bomber] Richard Reid, and that Mr. Abu Ghaith had no prior knowledge of the “shoe bomb” plot; 
His understanding that the videos were for “propaganda purposes;” 
His view that, after the United States invasion of Afghanistan, the videos became “words without meaning;” 
His book Twenty Guidelines on the Path of Jihad, which addresses a huge misunderstanding of the concept of jihad and reflects Mr. Abu Ghaith’s views on the subject now and prior to September 11, 2001, specifically, his view that the image of jihad was poorly portrayed and 
was not in line with the true principles of the concept, which involves “aware[ness] of the entire political, religious, and historical situation,” and the means by which the book was gotten out of Iran for publication; 
The Palestinian cause and its importance to Muslims; 
The opening of Iran to Arab families in Afghanistan following the U.S. invasion of that country, and subsequent developments; 
His arrest on April 23, 2003 in Shiraz, Iran, along with [al-Qaeda suspects] Saif al-Adl and Mohammed al-Masri, whom Mr. Abu Ghaith met for the first time upon arrest and whose identities he did not learn until later; 
His custody in Iran at various locations, and the conditions of confinement; 
Initial limitations on communications with family; 
An inquiry by Mr. Abu Ghaith to Mr. al-Adl and Mr. al-Masri whether they were involved in the U.S. Embassy bombings in Tanzania and Kenya, and their response; 
Mr. Abu Ghaith’s belief that al-Qaeda did little to nothing to assist him and other detainees in Iran; 
His marriage to Fatima bin Laden, Usama bin Laden’s daughter, who was also detained in Iran; 
Mr. Abu Ghaith’s current and prior marriages, and his eleven children; 
Further details regarding the conditions of confinement in Iran, and their gradual improvement; 
A protest by Mr. Abu Ghaith and fellow detainees against their conditions of confinement, which resulted in Mr. Abu Ghaith being beaten and hospitalized, and trauma to one of his daughters; 
Improvements in communication with family outside Iran; 
Mr. al-Mauritani’s escape from Iranian custody; 
Mr. Abu Ghaith’s understanding of the initial process of his release from Iran, and his understanding that he would be returning to Kuwait to be with his family; 
His waiver of initial presentment and the interviewers’ interest in further interviewing him; 
Photographs of and background concerning [Guantanamo Bay detainee] Faiz al-Kandari and [suspected Usama bin Laden associate] Anas al-Kandari; 
The presence of “spies” at a guest house across the street from the House of Pomegranates; 
Mr. Abu Ghaith’s desire to speak to a lawyer at presentment, since he had not been afforded the opportunity to see a lawyer or a judge during his entire 11 years of custody in Iran; 
Two or three sermons that Mr. Abu Ghaith gave at Usama bin Laden’s compound attended by 10-15 individuals including family members; 
His explanation that he never gave any speeches at any guest house in Afghanistan and never asked any trainees to pledge bayat to Usama bin Laden during any of his speeches; 
His assertion that he never asked any trainees to pledge bayat to Mullah Omar, noting that Arab fighters would not generally pledge bayat to someone like Mullah Omar because they had their own groups; 
The process by which Mr. Abu Ghaith was taken out of Iran into Turkey; and 
His arrest in Turkey. 
* 
The motion I submitted to the Court incorporated argument based on the government’s theory of the case: 
 
The Government’s Opening 
 
During opening statements, the government made a number of references to evidence that it apparently intends to establish based on Mr. Abu Ghaith’s statements. The government’s eyewitnesses have already testified, accordingly, the relevant source for the following propositions of fact may only be Mr. Abu Ghaith’s own statement: 
 
Mr. Abu Ghaith had for months prior to September 11, 2001 been helping al-Qaeda recruit and incite fighters; 
He moved to Afghanistan because extremist groups like Taliban and al-Qaeda were present there; 
Usama bin Laden asked Mr. Abu Ghaith to meet in spring of 2001 and he agreed to work for al-Qaeda; 
Prior to September 11, 2001: 
 
Mr. Abu Ghaith “traveled to al-Qaeda locations throughout Afghanistan;” 
“He went to al-Qaeda military training camps;” 
“He spoke to hundreds of young recruits. His message: Continue your terrorist training, train for war, for violent jihad. Prepare to fight your enemy;” and 
During one session at a secret al-Qaeda compound where recruits stayed before going to get trained, Mr. Abu Ghaith spoke and urged al-Qaeda recruits “to support Usama bin Laden and fight with al-Qaeda;” 
 
Mr. Abu Ghaith “admitted that he met with Usama bin Laden as soon as he got to Afghanistan, months before [September 11, 2001], and immediately agreed to help al-Qaeda;” 
“He admitted that the purpose of his speeches was to motivate al-Qaeda trainees, to help them understand the importance of their terrorist training;” and 
“[He] admitted that he understood that he was valuable to Usama bin Laden because he can provide al-Qaeda with a precious resource, a precious commodity, people, fighters for al-Qaeda.” 
* 
The court did not allow the entirety of the statement into evidence. Much more substance was admitted, however, than at the Ibrahim trial. 
Following the motion to admit Mr. Abu Ghayth’s statement in whole, I filed a motion to compel the government to produce exculpatory material based on information from the White House and a written response to questions about the case that had been provided by Khalid Sheikh Mohammed from Guantanamo Bay. I included a summary of information from Mr. Mohammed about various issues, including al-Qaeda’s media outlet: 
 
Mr. Mohammed recounted that Usama bin Laden appointed him as the head of the as-Sahab Foundation for Media Publication, the media outlet for al-Qaeda. With regard to media personnel, he stated: 
 
As for the question about whether every person tasked with making statements know[s] the purpose behind them, the definitive answer is that those commissioned with playing a role in the media, such as reporting on letters or speeches, do not know the extent of them or what is behind them or that this is only a war of attrition. The operations which the leadership intends to undertake and the plans for them are known only to the leader of the operation and the military and security officials involved; those carrying out 
the operations are not privy to the specific plans until the goal or the time of the operation approaches for fear that the operation will be botched or miscarried. 
* 
The information from the White House that I wrote about comprised statements to the media about the case in the days following the apprehension of the client: 
 
Public statements by the Executive Branch establish that the United States Intelligence Community (“IC”) is or has been involved in this case. As the President’s Principal Deputy Press Secretary Josh Earnest stated: 
 
[T]here is broad consensus across the United States government. At the Department of Defense, the Department of Justice, the Department of Homeland Security, the intelligence community agrees that the best way to protect our national security interests is to prosecute Abu Ghaith in an Article 3 court. 
… 
Article 3 courts have shown that they are, in many ways, a more efficient way for us to deliver justice to those who seek to harm the United States of America. And that is the consensus view of the President’s national security team and of agencies all across the federal government that this is the best way to handle bringing Abu Ghaith to justice. 
 
Thus, the federal bodies involved in the prosecution of Mr. Abu Ghayth include the Department of Defense, the Department of Homeland Security and the American intelligence community. … 
* 
Among other things, I argued: “Mr. Mohammed is an insider of al-Qaeda at the highest levels. He has been interrogated by the government, as countless other al-Qaeda suspects have been. The nature of his response establishes reason to believe that the government is in possession of further exculpatory information gleaned through such interrogations. Disclosure is mandated accordingly.” 
* 
From a colloquy with Judge Kaplan during a hearing where the motion was addressed: 
 
THE COURT: 
The motion is denied. It’s entirely without merit. I will consider the question of whether it’s sanctionable at a later time. 
 
And then later: 
 
MS. DOLAN: 
Your Honor, if I may? 
 
THE COURT: 
Yes. 
 
MS. DOLAN: 
I’d like to briefly address the specter of sanctions. 
 
THE COURT: 
If, as, and when something is done about it, you’ll have every opportunity. 
 
MS. DOLAN: 
Your Honor, I’d like to address that specter now. 
* 
Lena Jakobsson, a reporter for CNN International reporting on the proceedings in an online article that evening, wrote of my response: “As the attorney began to respond, Kaplan adjourned the session and left the bench.” 
* 
I was at the flame again. 
This time, sparks from friction in the courtroom cast light on questions that had come to define life for me: why did I become a lawyer and end up on a case such as this one? Why will I fight to protect my client’s rights in any circumstance, no matter the charges? The criminal justice system requires an adversary and a judge, not to mention a Congress legislating laws to be enforced and a society voting Congresspeople into office and so on, thus the inquiry also involves asking: can anything I do ever make a difference? 
Why not just hop on the bandwagon instead of standing up to the tide? 
I mean, who the hell cares, anyway? 
The answers, so far as I can perceive them today, lie in the inclination to search for the meaning of life by testing boundaries. It stands to reason that identifying extremes will facilitate understanding of the spectrum of experience in between, and that the process of exploration will yield truths about the nature of living within the limits of reality. 
Take, for example, the tension within the marriage of book knowledge and real life. What book or case law could prepare me to advocate on behalf of a client in a situation involving the threat of sanctions for requesting exculpatory material in accordance with the law, and yet how could I persist without knowing the legal legs I had to stand on? Instinct can only help so much. Theory and action are complementary, and each loses force without the other. 
I want to be a part of achieving balance ~~ in my own 
life, and in my profession. 
As the trial went on, as I sparred with my adversaries and asserted myself in response to the judge, as I presented legal argument and cross-examined witnesses based on information I uncovered through not just investigation but also by mining my own past experiences in the Middle East, and as I communicated with my client in court using the Arabic that I had learned years before in what seemed like another life ~~ I came to understand that everything I had ever been or done, everything that had happened to me in my life, every moment that had occurred and led up to right now, had come and gone without ever turning real, passing into being only so far as the remnants of memory combine into an identity that makes me do what I do in the present.   
In the end, the jury convicted Mr. Abu Ghaith on all counts, and, later that year, Judge Kaplan would impose a sentence of life in prison. I would be quoted in a blog by Phil Hirschkorn about the sentencing on The Huffington Post: “The question is whether a life sentence is appropriate for something someone said.” Mr. Hirschkorn’s blog, addressing the issue of terrorism prosecutions in open court, would end with something else I told him, which I did not imagine he would quote but am glad that he did: “I’m a defense lawyer because I believe in trials.” 
* 
After the trial in the Abu Ghayth case, I went back to California. Over the next three months, I would have three federal trials, two in Brooklyn and one in Los Angeles, followed by a series of hearings in other cases, including a matter that was still going from the day when my practice exploded back in 2011. 
Meanwhile, I was profiled by Al Jazeera in an article by Kristen Saloomey entitled “Sulaiman Abu Ghaith’s transgender defender,” with the tagline “One of bin Laden’s son-in-law’s lawyers, Zoe Dolan, is a transgender woman whose life was forever changed in Egypt.” I was also interviewed by 
Michelangelo Signorile on his radio show The Gist on SiriusXM. 
Following the interview, Michelangelo invited me to blog on Huffington Post Gay Voices, of which he is Editor-at-Large. 
“I would love to!!” I wrote. 
Inside I thought, What the hell do I have to say? I shelved the idea and figured the invitation would sputter out. 
Life began to recalibrate over the next week or two, and, of all things, I met a man online. I enjoyed our conversations, and he expressed enthusiasm for dating and getting to know me. Everything was roses. That is, until I talked to him about my past. 
“We can be friends,” he volunteered. 
“No,” I said. “I don’t think we can.” 
“Why?” 
“Because I don’t want to be friends with prejudiced people.” 
“I’m not prejudiced,” he protested. 
“You have judged me based on how I was born. That’s prejudice.” 
Oh, this fucking albatross of inequality!! Damn it, I did have something to say in The Huffington Post, after all. A few days later I had posted my first blog mentioning the apprehensions I felt over my gender identity. The blog went on to talk about how the media and my professional colleagues had shown respect regardless of my transition, with the exception of The Wall Street Journal, in which I was reduced to a one-sentence parody of my attire at trial one day. 
Maybe if I just keep doing these, then the face of acceptance I meet in society will melt and trickle down into people’s hearts ~~ I hope. 
* 
That May, I attended my fifth Law Day Dinner at the Waldorf-Astoria. Five years before, at the first one I went to, I had known only one person. Now I knew a number of lawyers, some of whom I’d worked with by now. Among the judges I 
spoke with that night was the Honorable J. Paul Oetken, whom I was, frankly, afraid to meet. 
Unbeknownst to me beforehand, the profile of me in The New York Times had featured a quote from the transcript of a sentencing before Judge Oetken: “I grew up in a small, conservative place,” and then, “I came out, or struggled with coming out, when I was going through high school and college.” 
I could identify!! 
Over the summer, I returned to Modesto for my 20th high school reunion. Though I had seen a number of friends at Layla’s memorial service, there were many more whom I had not seen in two decades. How would they react? Would they accept me for who I’d become? 
A couple hours before the reunion, I went to visit my first bosses ~~ whom I’ll call Thomas and Bernard. They had long since closed the bookstore where I worked for them back in high school, and we had lost contact since I had followed Thomas’s advice ~~ “Get thee to Cairo; Paul Bowles is dead and we need another.” ~~ and gone back to Egypt in 2000. 
I knocked on the door of their house and no one answered. I peered in the window and saw dust on the floor in one of the sitting rooms. So I began to walk away, disheartened that they must be out of town on the one afternoon I was nearby out of the blue. Halfway across the street, I turned back on a hunch that Bernard might be in the back, gardening. 
And so he was. 
“You may not recognize me,” I said, “but I was one of your employees 20 years ago.” 
Bernard laughed, gave me a hug, and we went inside to find Thomas and talk about literature, music, and what had happened in the past two decades, until it was time for me to go. I told them how much The Death of Virgil and Arvo Pärt had meant to me, and my soul. 
I met up with Jordan, and we braved seven hours of high school reunion together. Not one person said a negative thing to me or disparaged my transition. I cannot know what went through their minds, of course. I can only speculate that their thoughts were perhaps similar to mine: it’s been 20 years already, what the fucking hell, I’m so happy to see you. 
The following day, I flew back to New York for a few cases. One of them was a sentencing in another case lingering from the avalanche in 2011. My sentencing submission on behalf of the client, whom I’ll call Jose Gonzalez, included a letter from a fellow inmate who wanted to show his support for Jose. The fellow inmate wrote: 
 
As I am an openly gay man, prison is and has been a hostile and entirely unfriendly environment. Through my interactions with Mr. Gonzalez in my classes, we have become good friends. We have remained friends despite the incessant taunting by others in our unit at [the jail]. I believe that his continued friendship with me shows him to be an individual with a great deal of courage, integrity and compassion for others. 
 
At the sentencing hearing, I spoke about the pleasure it had been to represent Mr. Gonzales. And I also spoke about my experience working in this capacity as a transgender woman. It was the first time I had spoken about being transgender on the record in open court. The client received a sentence in the middle of the applicable range of the United States Sentencing Guidelines, while all the other defendants in the case received an above-Guidelines sentence. 
* 
Back in Los Angeles, I decided to take a “vacation” by working half-time for a month, my version of two weeks off 
spread over the course of four. With a little leeway in my time, I wanted to give dating another shot. What the hell, I thought, I’ll try Tinder. So long as I adhere to my sexual recovery plan, there’s nothing wrong with flirting ~~ who knows? 
Some of the e-conversations I had ended up heartening me more than I ever would have guessed: 
 
1. 
Him: 
Hey Zoe!! Haha:). I love ur write-up. Honest and open... 
A boys body... Haha!:). I call it diesel;). Anyway, i like it. 
U seem fun and i like outdoorsy stuff too. We shud hang and if things work, also open to sex. Haha!:) 
 
Me: 
No seriously, I am transgender, transitioned and had surgery when young 
 
Him: 
Oh i see :) sorry, new to that scene/terms. 
Hope i did not offend:) 
So did you have a fun outdoorsy summer thus far? 
 
2.  
Him: 
Where you really born in a boys body lol 
 
Me: 
Yes 
 
Him: 
Lol. No way then you got surgery? 
 
Me: 
Yes 
 
Him: 
Oh crazy stuff 
 
Me: 
Not crazy, just born that way 
No need to be insulting 
 
Him: 
I’m. Not I would of said something 
 
Me: 
Oh maybe I misunderstood, I thought you were being mean about it 
 
Him: 
Lol no 
 
3. 
Him: 
Boy transitioned to female? So you like boys or girls or boys want to be girls? 
I’m ignorant but curious 
 
Me: 
Not sure I understand the question 
I am a straight female 
I was born in a boy’s body and fully transitioned to female earlier in life 
 
Him: 
Oh okay. You into running and fitness? You seems fit 
 
Me: 
Yes! 
 
4. 
Him: 
Were you really born a man? 
 
Me: 
Well I consider myself always female, but yes, I was born in a boy’s body. 
Why do you ask? I already said so in my profile. 
 
Him: 
Sometimes people say things for attention 
So do you have a dick? Can you get pregnant? 
 
Me: 
I am completely female. No, I cannot get pregnant, but I am not looking for a husband anyway. 
 
Him: 
You don’t need a husband to get pregnant. 
I was just curious if you were able to or not 
Do you feel that you are a happy person 
 
Me: 
Yes, very happy 
I had to work to be able to be myself, and now I am 
 
Him: 
Good for you 
 
5. 
Him: 
If I ask you a question that’s disrespectful you’ll tell me? 
 
Me: 
I would prefer just to merry on person and see if we hit it off 
*Meet 
 
Him: 
Ok 
Can I ask one question? : ) 
 
Me: 
Yes 
 
Him: 
Do you have complete sensation in your vigina? 
 
Me: 
Yes. And I get wet and have clitoral and vaginal orgasms. 
 
Him: 
Ok I’m done asking : ) 
I’d love to meet 
 
6. 
Me: 
What would you like to know 
 
Him: 
Doea that mean you have had a sex change 
 
Me: 
That term is not accurate 
 
Him: 
I am unfamliiar so forgive my ignorance 
That is the only term i have heard 
Hopefully my attempt to educate myself in the process of being ignorant counts for something 
...Cant say I’ve ever been down that road 
 
Me: 
That you know of 
 
Him: 
Lol that i know of 
Good point 
 
7. 
Me: 
Btw, you know that i was born in a boy’s body, correct? 
Completely female now but I like to make sure since some men are weird about it. 
 
Him: 
Yes I do. You made a transition. It’s cool. 
Would still love to get ino trouble. 
 
Me: 
Ok great. 
 
Him: 
Just out of curiosity... What are you wearing at the moment? 
* 
Thus I came to understand, nine years after my surgery, that my fears around going under the knife to correct my genitalia had indeed been based in reality; only it was a different one from what I had thought. Before my surgery, as I fretted about the risks and the contingencies, I had believed that men would focus on the aesthetics and functionality of how the surgery turned out. But it was not so. Rather than being worried about the details of appearance, their question was whether I could feel pleasure. 
In other words, it wasn’t about just them; it was about me, too. I am not sure how long it will take for me to learn that wallowing in low self-esteem is pointless; after all, my relationships with friends and family have endured, why not love? 
* 
Before we had dinner in Santa Monica, Jordan and I took a run together around UCLA. We talked about our careers and our personal lives as we ran, and, as we sat down to eat later on, he asked about my progress on this book. 
A couple weeks before, I had stood up at a meeting in New York for my 12-year sexual sobriety anniversary chip. The Twelfth Step is: “Having had a spiritual awakening as the result of these steps, we tried to carry this message to other addicts, and to practice these principles in all our affairs.” 
“This memoir is my 12th Step,” I said. “I am trying to practice the principles of recovery in all my affairs.” 
If only it were possible to stretch out time ~~ not just through recollection, but also in the moment of living it. Why must the beauty of life depend on its preciousness? 
I dropped Jordan off and drove home toward downtown Los Angeles. Traffic on the 10 was light at that time of night, so I was free with my thoughts about the string of days Jordan and I ditched school and hung out together, talked for hours on the phone, drove around Modesto, and grew up together. 
I could not wait to move on for most of my life, and now all I would wish is to go back. Reducing time on this earth into words on a computer screen has done nothing if not enhanced my appreciation for Virginia Woolf’s journey to the end of the human spirit in her work On Being Ill: 
 
That illusion of a world so shaped that it echoes every groan, of human beings so tied together by common needs and fears that a twitch at one wrist jerks another, where however strange your experience other people have had it too, where however far you travel in your own mind someone has been there before you ~~ is all an illusion. We do not know our own souls, let alone the souls of others. Human beings do not go hand in hand the whole stretch of the way. There is a virgin forest in each; a snowfield where even the print of birds’ feet is unknown. Here we go alone, and like it better so. Always to have sympathy, always to be accompanied, always to be understood would be intolerable. 
 
I believe this passage to be true. And yet, sympathy and understanding are what I nonetheless seek. 
Indeed such characteristics are what I must always take care to preserve as a lawyer. My clients depend on my ability to understand them and advocate on their behalf, a job that I am all but precluded from doing unless I endeavor to understand my own role. 
And what is my role? A couple years ago I tried to answer the question on the philosophy page of my website, which I include here in hopes that it will one day be gone, that is, that I will be able to continue practicing, and that, eventually, what I learn in the practice will mature into another philosophy, and another, and another, each of which will be uploaded to replace 
the last, in a cycle of learning that goes on: 
 
People always ask me how I can defend someone I know is guilty. 
The question is how I can not do it. My clients come to me at the end of a journey, washed ashore after surviving a storm at sea. They are the lucky ones. Any number of others never made it that far. The degree to which we respect the rights of the accused in those circumstances is a measure of society in whole. 
Early on a mentor said to me, “Never forget, the people you’ll be representing all have a story, there isn’t anyone who ends up in that federal courthouse who doesn’t have a story.” 
My job is to get to the bottom of the story, and then tell it. The standard applicable to knowingly presenting a falsity is very high ~~ yet everyone would know were it to happen. The balance must be maintained even when the tightrope gives, ever so much. 
The process begins with explaining to my clients what I will do for them. You can choose to tell me the truth now, or in bits and pieces over the course of my representation. Or, you may decide never to disclose to me. No matter what you do, I will fight for your rights, and I will achieve the best possible result I can. 
I may be stronger than the information I am given, but I must operate in proportion to it. My job is to walk right up to the line. Crossing it serves no one. 
The secret of criminal defense practice, I suspect many would agree, is that criminal defense lawyers are sometimes the last to know the truth. Embracing that principle enables us to sift through situations until we find something to work with ~~ much like panning for gold. 
Meanwhile, we exist in the realm of grey areas. It is governed by the rule of ambiguity. 
I have represented several people of whose guilt I was not convinced beyond a reasonable doubt. One was acquitted at 
trial, and the government dismissed the case as to another. There are others, but I may not write about them. 
For me, there is no more harrowing an experience in law than defending someone I believe may not have committed the crime charged. The prospect of an innocent person’s loss of liberty has woken me up at night. 
Handling cases where guilt is certain can be no less heart-quickening. Simply because a person did something does not mean that the full extent of possible punishment for that conduct is appropriate. The law may be too harsh, not simply because society allotted retribution in advance, but more so because it is impossible to account for every consideration beforehand. 
The greater the challenge of reaching a result that everyone can live with, the more fulfilling the endeavor. One time I told a client about the plea offer I had obtained for him, and he got onto his knees behind bars and bowed his head, clasping his hands together and crying as he thanked me ~~ over and over again. 
That was a good day. It was also a reminder that every day presents an opportunity to put the law to the test, an effort that must never cease, lest the right to do so be lost. 
As with life, it is in the sweet spot between ideals where justice lies. 
* 
And the truth? That determination is for the courtroom. 
Out here in the world, when the author Joan Didion left New York after living there early on in life, she wrote an essay, “Goodbye to All That.” I came across it for the first time online one night when I was still setting myself up in the little house in Los Angeles where Sean had installed me. Joan Didion had moved to LA too, after leaving the life she had started in New York. As much as I relate to the essay, I have come to hope that each goodbye in life is more of a hello, indeed a “Hello to All This,” no 
matter what “This” is, and that there will be more cases and more experiences to incorporate into the philosophy that I hope will light my way, and that society will keep making room for people like me and all transgender people and anyone else who is different but the same, and that whatever I’ve managed to write here is only a prelude to whatever’s next, and that life will continue to unfold and startle me and shake me up as time goes on, and that each moment in the future is not the end of anything but, rather, 
A Beginning. 
 
  
Epilogue 
 
September 10, 2014. Echo Park, Los Angeles. My home office, the day my client Willie Tyrone Trottie was scheduled to be executed in Texas. I had done everything I could think of to stop it. 
One Facebook post that afternoon: 
 
Sitting by the phone waiting for a call from the Supreme Court. And of course it’s Justice Scalia who has my motion for a stay of execution. This shit fucking sucks. I hate capital punishment and wish that anyone who supports it would first consider becoming a lawyer and being assigned to represent a human being sentenced to death. 
* 
Another Facebook post, an hour later: 
 
And then one day God said, You will be on the cover of a magazine ~~ the alumni magazine of the law school you nearly flunked out of. But, you see, the magazine will be put up online in the same hour that the United States Supreme Court denies your final applications trying to stop the execution of one of your clients. That way, you will have a better chance of remembering why you do what you do, and what really matters in the practice of law. 
* 
In the following weeks, as I turned the pages of my memories, so I also turned the pages written by those who have influenced me. I can be no more, and no less, than the synthesis of my experiences, many of which are not my own but someone else’s, contained, or rather set free, in a book. 
In an effort to bring myself up to the task of this one, I read a bunch of autobiographies including Without Stopping by Paul Bowles, since he was one of the catalysts who sparked my interest in the Middle East when I was young. I had been meaning to get to that book for 20 years, even before I had gone to New York with the stars in my eyes that Woody Allen had put there. 
Unlike the moment of passing Woody Allen on the street, however, I guess I ran into Without Stopping at a proper moment in time. From deep within the pages, this kernel of perspective jumped out: “Back in New York, I read the headlines about Hiroshima and Nagasaki, felt bitter about being a national of a country with a government of so little moral intelligence, and began to wonder how many years it would be before the United States was subjected to the same kind of treatment at the hands of Asians.” 
There, in a sentence, is why I now write. My motive has been a desire to participate in the interplay that makes up the fabric from which our world arises: a web of minds undertaking, in one way or another, questions like the ones at the outset of this book. 
Would you and I be the same if anything had happened differently before now? How do our experiences play into the conception we form of our place in society? In what ways do the personal and political realms of our value systems intertwine? Why did we choose what we do to fill our days and make a living, instead of something else? 
Bringing things past into focus through the looking glass of remembrance has revealed to me that the answer to those questions is life itself: a garden overgrowing with memories that sprouted years, or even decades, after I planted their seeds ~~ usually without realizing the significance of the act. Time creates distance between these memories, which appear at first to be stars in constellations imposed into sense by the mind, but which, upon 
examination, turn out to be galaxies of what could have been and may still be. 
There is so much life in life, it’s almost scary to me. Does the overgrowth of potentiality verge on throttling hopes and dreams of their own abundance, or is there always room for more? 
In October of 2014, I gave a talk at Chicago Ideas Week about my gender transition and my work. The day before the talk, I returned to the University of Chicago to stroll through recollections of the summer I spent there studying Arabic years ago, before venturing to Egypt for the first time. Predictably, the floor of the common area at the International House where I’d written out grammar drills in a cloud of Vicodin drew a smile to my face. Not so predictably, tears stung my eyes on the walk back to the El; there were whole parts of the campus, and a lovely park, that I had missed altogether years before, as I was feeding my sex addiction elsewhere. 
There is time that has been lost, and time that was thrown away. 
Could it be that life forfeited in either manner is nevertheless retrievable through sharing with others? After telling my story to the audience at Chicago Ideas Week, I chatted with a group of six high school students from challenged communities, who had been invited to attend the day’s events. They asked questions for 45 minutes straight ~~ until their bus driver threatened to leave without them. Afterward one young man from the group hugged me and said he was going to remember the conversation we had. 
Unable to have children myself, I have hoped for some time that my existence would gain purpose if only I might inspire a young person, even just for a second, to follow his bliss and pursue a dream. I went to sleep that night with the belief that standing up to be counted had been worth it, and that I had done so in the best way I could. 
But then, three days later, I received an e-mail from a young woman in the audience that cracked my complacency open. She wrote, in part: “To me, your story was an important reminder that the lines between work and life often blur, and we need to be courageous enough to take learnings from both spheres to reinforce our resolve in acting in the spirit of human decency and morality in all aspects of life.” 
At first the idea that I had had such an effect flattered me ~~ until rumination illuminated the force that drove me to live the story I’d told onstage: guilt. 
I know you understand by now: for me, no amount of anything can change how I feel about the fact that my friend Mahmoud was arrested on the Queen Boat because I invited him there. Although I had no way of knowing what would happen, and I never would have imagined it, he would not have been taken away if I had not asked him to come. 
The guilt that haunts me to this day reaches further than my inaction following Mahmoud’s arrest. I am guilty as the cause. 
Sure, I can rationalize this feeling: I know that what transpired was not my fault. I know I should not blame myself for what went down. I know I was powerless to stop the injustice at work in that moment. I know all of this along with everything else that I would say to someone if this story were theirs and they told it to me. 
But I still feel responsible. 
To be sure, this sense of responsibility has two sides. One weighs upon my soul and drags me down in the fight to aspire to the life of decency and morality that the young woman in the audience wrote of; the other I hold onto when the fight for justice seems pointless and the world looks like shit. 
Yet these two sides remain the same phenomenon, depending on how you look at it. So I know guilt when guilt can go either way. 
I am sure you have already intuited my confession: I go into the courtroom today to quench a thirst that will always linger. Each court appearance is an attempt to be there for Mahmoud by attending the court appearances in Cairo following his arrest. I may continue to appear for my clients now and in the future as time marches on, but my seat for those hearings in Egypt will be empty forever. The space is filled by the black hole of regret, a void in which failures always outnumber successes and destiny’s vacuum keeps ambition in check. 
Retrospect distorts the past just as much as it sheds light. I choose to believe that fighting toward justice has a point for this reason alone. Our reality, whatever impression it gives, may be other than what appears. As the philosopher Zhuang Zhou wrote in the third century BC: 
 
Once upon a time, Zhuang Zhou dreamed he was a butterfly, a butterfly flitting about happily enjoying himself. He did not know that he was Zhou. Suddenly he awoke, and was palpably Zhou. He did not know whether he was Zhou, who had dreamed of being a butterfly, or a butterfly dreaming that he was Zhou. Now, there must be a difference between Zhou and the butterfly. This is called the transformation of things. 
 
Hoping that this transformation shall prevail in my own search for truth, I once made a note to myself to remember that the life I see is all in my perception of it: I asked God, Why can’t You send me someone to love, who will love me back, too? And God said, Look in the mirror. 
It took a while before I could. For me, believing came before seeing. 
Indeed, not so long ago, my brother sent me an e-mail out of the blue about the Valley of the Butterflies on Rhodes. I 
had not told him anything about the contents of this memoir; the passage about our afternoon journey on the Vespas long ago was to be a surprise. 
But he got there first. 
“Remember the Valley of the Butterflies in Greece?” he wrote, with a link to Wikipedia. “Did you realize they were MOTHS?” 
 
Los Angeles, California 
Spring 2014 – Spring 2015 
  
Acknowledgments 
 
A Kickstarter fundraising campaign helped bring this book to publication. Thank you for your generosity to Hansueli Maerki, Todd Gilliam Sears and the team at Out Leadership, Monica B. Wegner, Marilyn Klinger, Marissa Moser, PaulaMarie Susi, Jillian Weiss, John Siffert, Kelly Gillease, Christopher Moustakis, John Harkrider, Sammi Malek, Marsha Cohen, Nicole Hirschey, Inga Parsons, Anthony M. Solis, Elisa Goodkind and Lily Mandelbaum, Scott Elliott, and Doron Alon. Thank you for your support to Charley Mills, Richard Hackett, Christina N. Luis Olidem, Matthew Tague, Georgia Hinde, Craig Bessenger, Elle Conley, Joyce London, Ona Equality Wang, Lura and Ameerah, Krissy Girardi, Chris Stack, Daniel and Rina Root, Chris Bauer, and Blane Mall. And thank you very much to Jason Canales, Roland Riopelle, Matthew Edward Lyons, and Leon Mostovoy. 
I appreciate the readers who braved various drafts and took the time to offer their thoughts: Jeff Ziccarelli, Gautam Nayer, Monica B. Wegner, Peter Raucci, Aria Safar, Jordan Smith, David Lewis, Steven Brody, Matthew Detemple, my mom Carol Dolan, my dad Gary Dolan, and my brother James Dolan. 
My gratitude goes to Eve Gilman, Donna Levinsohn, and Sara Benson, for proofreading and offering editorial suggestions. Any errors lingering in the final manuscript are my own. 
I will always remain indebted to the people in this book and everyone who has made room for me in their lives outside these pages. 
Thank you for reading. 


 
 
To Whom I Could Have Been 
 
Zoe Dolan 
  
 
 
For my nieces. 
Zoe Dolan 2016. All rights reserved. 
  
 
 
“If it had been me ~~ and sometimes I am so drenched with images that I think it was ~~ but if it had been, I would have had no confidence, none at all. I would have been exhausted, wrung by disbelief, going ahead only out of a sort of curiosity, to discover exactly where it would all vanish.” 
James Salter, A Sport and a Pastime 
   
Moment One: 
The Ballet 
To Whom I Could Have Been: 
A decade before time wrote this story, you will go to the video store around the corner from your apartment on East 5th Street, the last space you rented in New York before you bought the little place where so much of what you are about to read happened, or at least where you lived, mostly, while it did, and you will rent a Japanese movie called After Life, which is set in a waystation between earth and heaven. In the film, heaven comprises a single memory that each character chooses to live forever. You will spend the next ten years considering your own life, and, being unable to decide which moment you yourself might select because there are just so many of them, you will want me to write what follows. 
The first memory you can recall with clarity is seeing The Nutcracker ballet when you were four years old. The one part of that day that you don’t remember, the link that your father fills in whenever you ask, is how you slept in the car all the way to San Francisco due to a slight fever, which had almost kept him from taking you, but he decided to nonetheless. 
You can see yourself sitting on the edge of your seat at the theater ~~ “Your eyes were just peeled as wide open as they could get,” your father reminisces ~~ during both acts. And, most of all, you remember eating a meal at McDonald’s afterwards, when all of a sudden a group of ballerinas appeared in full costume, almost dancing into line to order, and the exquisiteness of them twinkling captured you and you could not look away. 
It was then, among the hollowness of that franchise, rounded out by the oranges and browns branding it, that you began to long for beauty, and thus embarked on a search for the heights that the soul might reach, in a process of creation and destruction and re-creation that will outlive you. 
Years later, when you have reached young adulthood, your father will give you a book called Philosophies of Art and Beauty, which you will lap up as each wave of majesty flows toward you just as the previous one ebbs, and from which passages about your soul in the following pages have been drawn.  
The conception of that spirit, of course, stretches back in time ~~ along with everyone else’s ~~ to the genesis of humanity, and before then the world, and before then the universe, and before then the potentiality of existence without beginning or end. Any attempt to choose a starting point for your story, or any story for that matter, will always leave out close to everything that its telling would take for completion. Yet choose a starting point we must; otherwise, neither you nor your soul, nor I, would exist. 
And exist we do, I’d venture, for this story is true. 
Which moment would you choose? 
Let me share the ones where you and I were closest, if not in unison, over four decades, and see if you can pick from there. 
Until we meet again, I am and will remain, with love, as always ~~ 
Your Life  
Moment Two: 
A Feeling That Tempts 
A few weeks before they met in person, she had posted two ads on Craigslist ~~ that is, back when Craigslist was still used for these types of things ~~ each seeking a different guy. The first ad was for a male cycling partner, someone to keep her company on the way up north along the Hudson River, over the rolls of River Road heading toward Nyack, and beyond (all of which they talked about the first time they spoke, since the colors of fall were coming and she wanted to show him). 
She had been riding on her own for over a year by this point, and she desired the pulse of masculinity to sharpen the luster that shone from everywhere, especially on days with perfect weather, beginning where the George Washington Bridge meets the Palisades across from the City. She wanted someone to share the air with. 
The second ad was for a fuck buddy, more or less. She’d given up on finding a boyfriend, but she did want to have sex every so often, after all, she’d waited a long time until she finally could. 
Ideally fate would have combined the cycling partner and fuck buddy into one person. Ever since she had toppled into the heap over 30, however, the part of her where convictions formed knew that New York had won for good, and that the time had come to let go of hopes that had buoyed her until now. The sex ratio had tipped, and the imbalance would only worsen. 
Resignation might have seemed incompatible with her personality, which had thrived on fantasy ever since she was young. All those afternoons spent daydreaming and wandering the worlds of imagination as a child had molded her into an adult whose utility tethered itself to ambition. 
But, in the course of accepting her lot in life, she now resorted to sadness, extracting solace from the death of a part of her that she denied acknowledging altogether: life was over before it 
began, and, goddammit, right when she was getting started. The dejection lay in having lost the very passion that she may have learned to curb, yet had never stopped craving. 
It turned out that the sex partner she found was also a cyclist and wanted to spend time riding with her, while the cycling partner wanted to bring her toes to a curl and fall in love. 
The sex-partner-turned-cyclist was a Latin guy whose name is forgotten because he nuzzled against her a few times but the feeling of him was sort of like a squid; he couldn’t keep up on the bike ride he insisted they take together; and she wasn’t crazy about the polenta he raved over and introduced her to before he slipped away and she stopped hearing from him, except for the random text here and there, when he found himself wanting to cuddle. 
The cyclist-turned-love-affair was another Latin guy, let’s call him Aureliano, and she had a feeling something might happen as soon as she opened his picture from that first e-mail. His features were dark, just like her last boyfriend’s (Yigal the Persian Jew), and all the more so his eyebrows, the bushiness of which pronounced certainty from behind the edges of his Ray-Bans (the same pair that he’d give her to see the world with down in Mexico, upon which she’d exclaim that she totally needed polarized lenses, too). The photo showed his bicycle on the rack atop his old tan Volvo station wagon, with the Rocky Mountains in the background. 
Oh no, she sighed, as her eyelids drooped for no one to notice in the solitude of her hobbit-like apartment in the East Village, which she’d bought the year before. He’s attractive. 
There abides the commencement of attraction in the essence of essences, assuming a quality that is without color or form, yet remains visible to the mind. The intelligence of Divinity, nurtured on the knowledge of our spirits combined together, will rejoice at beholding reality, replenished once more through a revolution of the universe, as we yearn, we desire, we extrapolate the intricacies we wish to perceive, in a cycle that we hope to repeat, until enough time has passed and we find ourselves again in the same spot where we began and again are begun. 
Any single moment holds eternity like two mirrors facing each other and reflecting justice and temperance and other such absolutes ~~ if not in their manifestation or relation to anything else, 
then in perfect knowledge of existence itself, the very assumption from which this particular love affair arises in the first place. 
Meeting these truths, and feasting on them just as the heavens partake of their own grandeur in revolution, she will, in the end, pass down into their interior and return home to the body here on earth that she left so long ago. 
But that homecoming must wait until her soul is birthed, just like yours and mine, except only that hers will, with the manner of the ever-aspiring, be forever frozen in time. She is destined to be, in contrast to you and me, a figment of our imagination. 
Yet, at the same time, that very interplay between fantasy and vitality ~~ the consortium of feelings that come into being for no reason other than to be shared, a purpose on which they depend ~~ is precisely what renders her real. 
She is desire itself, quelled with thirsting. 
By the time she and Aureliano, the prospective cycling partner with bushy eyebrows, finally met in person, she had all but written him off as yet another apparition that would flicker short of materialization. What saved their connection from the graveyard of her interactions with men was the degree to which so many others calloused her against caring. Had she still fostered even a modicum of hope, she might not have tolerated the couple of cancellations he started out with ~~ initially because he fell sick, next because he had to travel to Austin to inspect a factory or whatever (or maybe it was the other way around… the Austin trip first and then the illness), or maybe he’d even cancelled three times already, she couldn’t remember. 
It was a Sunday afternoon verging on dusk. 
Her plan all weekend had been to check out the Russian & Turkish Baths on East 10th Street. (She would have been surprised to learn, if you went back and told her, that so much of her life to follow for the next five years would revolve around the Baths: their dingy, throbbing steam rooms and saunas that, even at street level, felt like forgotten caves underground ~~ but 
surprised only because, even if dreams of romance and chance had relinquished their hold, serendipity stayed dormant inside her.) 
She was dressed to head out the door when her phone rang. 
Did she recognize his number? It doesn’t matter. 
“I was literally on my way there for the first time ever,” she told him when he said that he was standing on the stoop of the Baths, yes, the same ones she was going to visit after having walked by almost daily in college, when she’d head home to her little apartment on 11th Street between Avenues B and C, taking 10th Street eastward because there was a bodega on 10th and B (across from Life Café), where she’d get a blondie every night, oh, my, in those days she really ate a bunch of crap, no wonder she was always so depressed and up and down. 
Night had just fallen, but it was October, so she was not cold. 
She strolled down 7th Street to 2nd Avenue, where they were going to meet at Atlas, a vegan and non-vegan hole-in-the-wall that smelled entirely of cake. The café was so small and non-descript that she could never remember the cross-street, 5th or 4th or maybe even 3rd, whatever she’d said on the phone just moments ago, half hoping that he wouldn’t be able to find it, or that she’d manage to drive him away by being so nonchalant, if he even intended to show up at all. 
Of course he intended to show up. He’d called her, hadn’t he? 
He wanted to meet her, sure he did. 
Plus, he was really cute. 
Those eyebrows. 
She picked up the pace with a bounce in her step. No longer was she trudging toward misery and the certainty of an emotional abyss ~~ she was going to meet a man. 
A man!! 
She felt very lucky, happy even. 
Maybe this one would be different. Maybe he’d turn out to be real and someone she could ride bikes with. 
Or maybe she’d just have a nice time this evening, eyeliner and all. 
And so her heart dipped and she felt a touch of disappointment ~~ or was it anger? ~~ when she arrived and he wasn’t there. 
Of course he wasn’t. He was like all the others, waiting to hurt her. 
Whatever, she’d brought a swimsuit (the trusty fluorescent orange bikini) in her bag just in case, so she could cut her losses and head to the Baths, as she’d originally planned. 
Which is why she was startled, really and truly almost shocked, when she spun around, her hair following through the air onto her shoulder, and he was right there in front of the phone booth she’d passed a second ago. 
That feeling of dread catalyzing in the backseat of her heart ~~ the one that she knew could rear up and cause her to crash at any time ~~ was very much what attracted her to him in that moment: the first one from this story that might tempt you. 
  
Moment Three: 
The Space Before a Kiss 
Their second date happened not too long after the first. She lost track of how long, though, and, years later, neither her phone nor the dating e-mail account that she used to correspond with him could yield the answer. The phone had cycled through deletions of him as a contact as the arguments and breakups rolled on, of course. And, meanwhile, the e-mail account lapsed into the ether of disuse, thus erasing, along with the exactitude she sought for reconstructing her mistakes, the initial strings that wove their entwinement into peril. 
She could not rely on him for clarification, either. In truth it was always so, though she did not notice for quite some time ~~ at first because she was not paying attention, as I am about to explain, and then later, a year or so into things, once she learned how the other side of intrigue that arose the instant she saw him had been correct: he could not be trusted, at least not with the abandon she longed to experience, except to wound. 
It was not the lies that jaded her after a certain point. It was being left, each time, just short. 
Probably she busied herself and did not think of him after they met at Atlas. It might’ve happened that way because things had evened themselves out in her law practice, ever since she’d passed the first-year mark as a solo the spring before. She still lived a heartbeat away from anxiety that everything would come apart, that her caseload would dry up and she’d be left scrambling for work, that life itself would fall down along with the implosion of everything, basically ~~ but at least now she’d internalized the proposition that she would survive, and so she had better things to do than wait for another guy to call. 
Or maybe the proclivity to distance herself from any daydreams of him at the start was attributable to her self-fulfilling prophecies, which had dulled the edges around dating better than any drug. (You see, I know, how the disappointment undulated ever since she had used Hawk-
nosed Greg to betray her own soul, back when she was 16, and everything changed forever in that last night the two of them spent together ~~ or, at least, so you thought for many years.) 
Whatever the reason, or combination of many, not paying attention was easier, and more readily available as a palliative, than giving two shits. 
Plus, then she could enjoy what happened without worrying too much ~~ she’d e-mailed back and forth with a cute guy (who was just two inches too short, that’s all), he’d invited her out to meet, and they’d shared vegan cake at a little hole-in-the-wall café ~~ without pausing to consider that, if he’d called 15 minutes later, she already would have made it to the Russian & Turkish Baths and started sweating in the steam room that smelled like wet socks, thereby missing their encounter at Atlas, and, who knows, maybe the next seven years that became her life. 
Yes, that first evening together could be enough in every way: as with the cake they ordered, which she merely nibbled at to preserve her figure, she’d trained herself to feast on crumbs ~~ yet another reason she gave no thought to hearing from him again. 
In all likelihood, she delved into work as though the experience had never happened even though she felt happy that it did, took a bike ride or two up to Nyack, and sooner or later hit the Baths on her own. There is a similar probability that she texted back and forth with the sex-partner-turning-cycling-buddy, who remained in the picture for another minute or two. And, most surely, there were e-mails, and texts and phone calls, with other men ~~ whoever was supposed to supplant whomever she was currently interacting-with-not-paying-attention-to. 
All of which is why he probably surprised her yet again, with another call, or an e-mail or a text, asking her to dinner. 
A couple years later, she had a realization at the Baths, which by then had become a nightly occurrence unless she had something else ~~ and it’d have to be pretty good ~~ to do. The insight revolved around rejuvenation and the nature of existence, as expressed by the scale at the top of the stairs to the grungy saunas and steam rooms down below, a contraption so old that it was made of brass. 
Clad in her fluorescent orange bikini, she weighed herself before she headed down to the heat, and, three hours later, she weighed herself again. She compared the result against the weight of the water she had consumed in the interim, only to discover that she’d gained one pound of body while having consumed seven pounds’ worth of liquid, which meant that she’d sweated six pounds in one visit. Her calculations brought home the point, for some reason, that she was a different amalgam of protoplasm going out than she had been going in ~~ the same person, perhaps, but not the same physical being. 
Even in the same individual there is succession and not absolute unity: a human is called the same, yet in the interval between youth and age, in the lapse of time in which that person may be said to assume life and identity, the qualities that comprise existence undergo a perpetual process of loss and reparation ~~ hair, flesh, bones, blood, and the whole body are always changing. 
The same holds true not only for corporeality, but also for the soul, whose habits, tempers, opinions, desires, pleasures, pains, and fears continue in flux, coming and going. 
So it also is for knowledge, she believed: even what she knew from one minute to the next would, presently or later, spring up and decay, such that no part of her would ever be quite the same, and each particle that combined to make her would undergo change until she was dead. 
The second date being another round in the pre-sex match, she wanted to keep playing on her turf. So, she suggested Mitali East on 6th Street between First and Second, the place where she’d met up with any number of other men, most notably the ex-boyfriend Robert, a skinny golden-eyed Guyanese who had finally managed to get in touch with her for the first time in a decade ~~ you remember ~~ and who then ended up back at her apartment nearby after dinner, only to become the first man she had sex with after her body was fixed. 
She maneuvered early dates to Mitali East not just because it was close, but more so because the proximity and low-lit atmosphere enabled her to slide in and out as if the night had not happened (if things went badly), or seamlessly (if things went well). Not to mention she already knew what she wanted to order, and it wouldn’t make her fat. 
But the real reason, though she would not have articulated it back then, was that the entrees remained at the lowest price you could pay for a sit-down meal in Manhattan ~~ and she just didn’t believe, even having been raised with trips to Europe, staying in luxurious hotels and eating whatever she wanted regardless of cost, that she deserved any better. 
Nor did not she want her dates to feel pressured to splurge beyond their capacity, either. 
She wanted to be someone they wanted to see again. She wanted it more than anything, even if she pretended the opposite past the point of believing so herself. 
The plan was to be applying eyeliner at the same time they had scheduled to meet, and then to amble over at her leisure, so that he’d have a chance to anticipate her arrival and get that tingly feeling in the pit of him when she walked in, smiling as the scent of the after-meal fennel seeds and candy wafted up from the table next to the door. 
A text notification beeped after she had already been sitting for several moments in the back corner, near the stairs down to the cramped bathrooms in the basement. 
Ten minutes later he made an apology as he slid into place across their little table. She hoped her eyes sparkled. 
A mustard blazer with intricate plaid sat on his shoulders, maximizing the breadth of his torso despite his otherwise small frame. She was wearing a low-cut top, and a multi-layered chain necklace that rolled over her breasts, likewise small but maximized, rising like flower buds from a push-up ~~ since we are still back in the phase of life when she troubled with a bra. 
He held eye contact, but she could tell that he saw (and she liked it), the whole time. 
The moment that tickles you came afterward, as they stood on the sidewalk in front of her apartment, saying Goodnight, and she wondered whether he would kiss her. She wanted him to, yet also she didn’t. She’d chewed on a handful of those fennel seeds, just in case. But she kept her body just a few inches away from where he could have reached her without moving, and the same feeling she’d had the instant they encountered each other in front of Atlas held her right here 
now, suspended in between the earth and the rustling of leaves in the trees, and our atmosphere bounded by space, overhead. 
  
Moment Four: 
In Between Breaths 
She had reached a point in calcification where it was easier to extract pleasure from squelching romance before it began, than to sustain disaster. Either she had learned to expect disappointment to the point where she produced the conditions that all but ensured a letdown, or so much disappointment over the years had inured her beyond the capacity to even entertain yearning for anything else ~~ in either case, the effect was the same: her dreams had become like birds that never grew feathers. Faith had turned on her, gashed a wound to the quick, and bled her into surrender. 
As a young person, she was a free spirit, a dreamer. Her teenage years had unfolded with striving to touch the heavens of art, philosophy, literature, and music, and to see the world everywhere in all its splendor. 
Now, as if all the years happened yesterday, she remembers moments of beauty that sprang from places otherwise barren of life or purpose. She remembers oases in the desert that restored her soul as it traveled. She remembers how the feebleness of her dreams gave her something to work for because those weaknesses promised something more, and better. And she remembers the extent to which she could never remember, being only one person and having experienced so much alone that she was conscripted to wonder, ever more with every passing minute, whether any of it had transpired. 
But she also knew that, even if it had not, it was all still real, as real as it could, and would, be, forever. 
She imagined that this emptiness matched how the same space will feel once full. 
You see, no matter how much she always tried to kill hope entirely, to strangle her longing of its own immensity, hope refused to die. The lifeblood that suffocated her was also what kept her alive. 
And so she found herself on her way to meet Aureliano for a third time, at Good Stuff Diner. 
This spot ~~ a bustling and colorful tunnel into the center of a building over on 14th Street between Sixth and Seventh Avenues, where she’d been devouring the veggie-burger-made-from-scratch, served up on seven-grain toast with a sliced avocado on the side, for months on end ~~ was so much brighter than Mitali East. 
She had selected Good Stuff because the starkness of the contrast with Mitali East disrupted the vibe that Aureliano had coaxed into being, at her instigation. Surely forcing their nascent interplay from the low-lit warmth of a spot in Little India to the surgical table of a diner on the border of Chelsea would kill the romance festering without further ado. 
As they sat at the counter, she hedged her bets and tried to push him away by broadcasting a disclosure from her past way too early. Let me save the details for later, though, because going into it now would ruin everything, and, even if that result is what she wanted back then, I am not afraid of waiting until further on in the process of getting to know each other. 
For her part, in contrast, fear was the impetus, since she had yet to learn that others may feel just as much apprehension as she did, and that their doubts might be driving them, too. In her mind, men were perfect creatures who knew everything and saw life before it happened ~~ they had either some sort of omniscience or foreknowledge of what would occur, and, in accordance with this superpower, they had the capacity to protect or demolish her. 
She would never have suspected, not then, that any of those men felt insecurity to the extent that she did. 
Nor would it have occurred to her that they felt the same apprehension, nor that the power to do something to her scared them just as much as it scared her ~~ if for no other reason than the immediacy of their own readiness to do it. 
They were all frightened of each other. Of themselves. 
And since most men tend to be bad ~~ slaves to the greed of their emotions, even if cowards in danger ~~ it was, she knew, such a terrible thing to be at their mercy, even though being there is what excited her so much. 
Having done horrible things herself, she knew that human beings were not only capable of, but also dispensed toward, evil ~~ like children whose love and affection for a new pet could smother it if left unchecked by a reminder to be gentle. She was bad, a fundamentally wicked being. And so she was terrified that others would do to her precisely what she did to them, or didn’t do (since she was a non-entity), and that the only true secret was everyone’s destiny: deceit and desertion. 
The disclosure ploy failed because he either ignored it or enjoyed the hunt of pursuing someone who was trying to push him away. 
He walked her home again, and, this time, they kissed. 
Or did it happen another way? 
Did he in fact give her a ride in his old tan Volvo station wagon ~~ the vehicle that would become the vessel for so many of their day trips over the coming months? 
Or did they say Goodbye to one another in front of Good Stuff, right there on 14th Street, amidst other people? 
Her memory falters once the love part of their affair had begun absorbing her. 
It was not until later on that evening, right before she was going to bed, that her experience of what was happening would kick into gear. 
The sequence of events that led up to this shift may be lost to the past for good ~~ but her memory can conjure life even more convincingly than her own eyes. 
She believes they kissed in front of her apartment, at least it stands to reason that they would have, for she remembers wishing that she could, with him, do what she did with other men: stand on a step of the stoop, and still have room to raise her heels, so their lips would reach hers without them having to bend down. She always loved the feeling of being lifted into those kisses. 
But, as you know, Aureliano was closer to her height, actually even less than a couple inches taller, and so with him she stayed on the ground, even when she felt herself flutter. 
It must have happened that way, for sure: he must have either walked with her or driven her home, because repetition has now convinced her that their very first kiss happened in precisely that manner. She has molded a moment that you might choose from dreams, for dreams were what would matter when everything else betrayed her. 
Yet the moment I suspect you want from this night is not the kiss, however it may have happened. Nor is it the feeling that the kiss left her, nor the joy that she tasted over and over afterward, as she showered and got ready for bed. 
Nor the feeling that she went to sleep with that night drifting on so much everything. 
Rather, it is the moment right after she heard his voicemail, which she retrieved with her bath towel wrapped around her head in a turban. The message was long, perhaps one of the longest, if not the longest, she’s ever received. 
He told her how much he’d enjoyed the evening and the whole process of getting to know her so far, and how he could tell, already, that she was what he had been looking for. His voice kept turning into words that condensed the space separating the two of them, one sentence after another, her eyes widening as he admitted that, at such an early stage of their acquaintance, the length of this voicemail, not to mention the content, could very well intimidate her with its 
intensity and certainty and all those other things that she loved about him already ~~ but he had a feeling she understood, and maybe she even felt the same? 
Yes, this very moment, the breath of time in between saving that message and returning his call. 
  
Moment Five: 
When She Knew 
Sometimes she would wonder how things might have turned out if she had let him lead from that point onward. But rather than succumbing to trust and oblivion, she sought to exercise control over the unfolding of events and chain their relationship to the routines she knew. 
Even so, refusal to acknowledge the fear underlying her impulse to assert control, in order to allow herself to drift toward him, was prerequisite to everything to come. For without a certain recklessness, there could be no love. 
The e-mail, and her reaction to it, sticks with her even now, all these years later. She wishes she had simply accepted the invitation, rather than respond with manipulation. 
“I was looking to attend a concert at Bard College,” he wrote. “Would you like to join?” 
He suggested that they cycle early in the morning and then drive to the concert and have a good time. 
Have a good time. 
Did she know how to have a good time anymore? Had she ever? 
The reason she held back was, especially in retrospect, such a stupid one. She wanted to go for a longer ride, get a real workout, show him a route in New Jersey that she took often. Making the concert would only leave time for a 15- to 20-mile ride, at most, which by this point had become a warm-up for her. Moreover, if she didn’t push herself on her rides to the max each time, she might fall short of her potential, and get fat. 
In reality, of course, she would not have gained a single ounce by going to the concert, and she would have experienced a memory that he wanted to give her. 
The program included Mozart, Schubert, and Previn. Mozart was overplayed, she thought, even if wonderful. She liked Schubert, usually, though she didn’t really know Previn too well. In the end, she wrote them all off by reminding herself that she wasn’t nuts about chamber music and wished he’d invited her to the symphony instead. 
Nevertheless, the e-mail glistened with its sincerity, and still does. A man had invited her on a bike ride and to a concert!! 
And she was going to destroy it. 
“Well,” she said, “if the concert starts at 3:00 and we’re going to ride in the morning, won’t it be a little tight?” 
He fell quiet. 
“I mean, we’ll have to shower and stuff before we head up there,” she added. 
Eventually he said that she had a point. 
“The ride I was thinking of is quite a bit longer, it’s the one I was telling you about the first time we talked. I want to show you because it’s so beautiful when all the leaves are yellow.” 
Oh, River Road, you served her so well for so long. You had been her springboard away from torpor and isolation for a year already, just as you would be for several years to come. 
But you were not the only ride they could have taken. He wanted to introduce her to the quiet little roads on the other side of the Hudson, around Bedford, Salem and Pound Ridge, where he took a series of photos of the changing leaves that he would send her less than a week later. 
You got in the way. 
More than her apprehension over losing control, the fear of stepping into something grander, something unwieldy and incomprehensible, the enormity of the unknown ~~ the portal of which swirled into a vortex ~~ festered beneath the surface of composure. 
Ever since puberty she had associated physical attraction with annihilation. She had come of age sexually during the late 1980s into the early 1990s, when the free expression of love intertwined with illness. She had been taught that sex meant HIV followed by AIDS, and AIDS meant death. The petite mort of orgasm was, for her, a metaphor turned real. 
If fear is correlated with the expectation that something destructive will occur, still no one will be afraid who believes that inevitability can be subverted, or that escape from fate is possible. The magnitude of the cosmos within these polarities dizzied her. 
Yet she likewise knew that we shall not fear things we believe impossible, and so she chose to believe that she could stop herself from tripping in a dance with the universe by making her own rules for the music of the spheres. She even went so far as to believe that exerting power would keep her safe. 
The extent of her egotism stood opposite to the conviction that she was useless and a piece of shit. She needed to be more than limitations dogging love… 
How exhausting this stream of thoughts, and the ongoing process of erecting and defending this construct, every hour!! 
Oh, River Road, you shone in your glory that day, a window of time in between the oranges and reds and when the trees went bare. 
Yellow leaves were indeed magic. 
Once, during her second year of college, she was walking from her apartment across the East Village to class at NYU. It was late in fall already, and the colors had changed. She was on 10th Street, just east of Second Avenue, when all of a sudden the air struck up in a blast of wind. Blinking the dust out of her eyes, she ducked into a doorway for refuge. 
The wind snapped in one direction, and then another, tearing a spate of yellow leaves from the nearby trees into a swirl. 
Yellow filled the air, yellow everywhere. 
Years later, when she was reading A Little Life by Hanya Yanagihara, a book so powerful ~~ as I will explain later ~~ that it made her sob and scream out loud as she careened through the pages on her phone, she came across a passage that reminded her of that moment on 10th Street. 
One of the main characters in the novel had just arrived home to his third-floor apartment in the West Village, on the corner of Perry and West 4th (not far from the studio-turned-two-bedroom apartment where she used to visit blond-haired and blue-eyed Alexander, her first real boyfriend in New York, and within walking distance from where they sat on a bench and he communed with the nape of her neck). Deep within the words on her screen, there it was: “…before he’d moved in, he’d had a vision that he would lie in bed late on the weekends and watch the tornado the yellow leaves made as they were shaken loose from their branches by the wind. But he never had.” 
So, here she is, in between those two moments in time ~~ one real but past, the other just as real but eternal in fiction ~~ and, there she was, on River Road, cycling alongside Aureliano up and down the rolling hills next to the Hudson, on their fourth date. 
She’d felt ever so trepidatious about riding with him because he’d told her, when she’d asked in that initial conversation weeks ago, that his average speed was 30 miles per hour. That pace was pretty fast; 25 to 27 was full-throttle for her on flat ground. 
As it turned out, his average speed, after accounting for hills, was closer to 11 or 12. (She didn’t ride circles around him, however, until their next ride together, which was the last one they will probably ever take.) 
They stopped for a picture or two here and there, and I bet they kissed. 
You might select from among those moments, when at last she experienced the companionship she had sought on every solo ride, and for all of her life, so far. Or you might choose any other moment on the ride at all, for, though she did not stop to think so, that afternoon she was fully present, anchored to her body in the world, for the first instant ever since she could have remembered. 
(Six years would pass before she came that close again, and went all the way.) 
You see, it was the first time she had made it to a fourth date with a man who had learned about her past after they’d already met and gotten to know each other. All the other times, she’d either known them before, which was different, or they found out and left. 
The abandon of being somewhere and perceiving it so completely carried her away like one of the leaves. She was, before she knew it, sitting in the passenger seat of his old tan Volvo station wagon as he nestled her bike into place in the back. 
There was just something about the way he popped into the driver’s seat, the energy of him and the rustle of his after-cycling sports clothes and the newness of his sneakers ~~ she knew right then: the moment you might choose was there on the West Side Highway, immediately south of the George Washington Bridge, when, after a silence they’d enjoyed for several minutes, he said, “I guess I should install the other bike rack on top of the car.” 
  
Moment Six: 
Tumbling into Love 
The pictures of that first trip she took to Mexico to visit him ~~ their fifth date, a weekend getaway, how extraordinary ~~ congealed into the Crazy Glue that held them together. 
There was the picture he took of her in the hotel room in Mexico City, moments after they had arrived, wearing a sports bra and running shorts, tying her shoes. She still had on the mascara she’d applied in New York that morning and freshened up in the little bathroom with the concrete sink just before the baggage claim area outside passport control. Her eyelids are cast down, and she is smiling in the middle of a word or something. Her skin glistens. 
She was getting ready to head up to the gym on the roof, to use the running machine and then take a dip in the pool. It was such a luxury for her to be in an environment like this one, at the invitation of a man on top of everything. She had not stayed at a hotel with a pool in a long time. Anyway, she wanted to exercise and swim not just to rinse off the flight from JFK, but also, of course, because she wanted to avoid gaining any weight. 
She looks so young in that one, and all the others from the Mexico City hotel suite, where they would later make love reflected in a wall-sized mirror that took up one bedroom wall. 
There were pictures from Patzcuaro, the little pueblo in Michoacan where they stopped for tortilla soup at a restaurant where they were the only diners, and someone took a photo of them at the table together. Aureliano snapped more of her outside, under the stone colonnade on the way to ice cream ~~ back when she still ate ice cream, which she could do because she’d snuck in a workout that morning before they checked out ~~ and of her in the middle of a cobblestone street, and also in front of a big arched wooden door, squinting from the sun. He took a lot of pictures of her back then. 
Before they left Patzcuaro, she picked up a little Calavera Caterina statue that she keeps out on display as part of her shrine to Aureliano in her New York apartment ~~ at least for now ~~ even though the bubble-wrap failed to protect the figure’s delicate extremities, those flourishes of intricacy that so drew her to this Caterina in particular, and the poor thing’s head and arms got knocked off during the flight home. 
And also there were pictures in Ixtapa, a resort town around the cove from Zihuatanejo, the little seaside pueblo where The Shawshank Redemption ends and their love affair begins. 
The lobby of Las Brisas hotel was open-air, as if the weather were always perfect, and their room had a balcony overlooking the ocean. She had gotten out of the custom of staying in places as nice as this one; but she fought to remember how to carry herself and take it all in, and she pretended. 
Most of the Ixtapa pictures were taken that first evening they arrived, when she wore a red dress that she had picked up for $10 at someone’s apartment sale on 7th Street and Avenue B. That thin, shoulderless, backless dress was enough that night; she stayed warm with her hair down; lush curls had formed from the ocean air. 
Her red patent leather purse was from a second hand shop over on Avenue A north of Tompkins Square Park, before the store moved and a 7-Eleven appeared across the street. If she looked a little shabby, maybe the taste of her very red Chanel lipstick would help him forget. 
She was trying her best. 
At the heart of her intellect lay the good of simplicity, untouched, from which all her thought and experience were generated by a process of emanation: from the Oneness of Unity comes the Mind, from the Mind comes the Soul, and the Soul forms into the body that contains it and sets it free through life. 
The reciprocation among all these essences was the version of beauty that she offered him, in an attempt to illuminate the order and harmony which together comprise the One. For when the 
Soul encounters sensible beauty, that is, the world-mirror that reflects it, pleasure springs forth into a momentary paradise of nature. 
There, in the energy from the tension between beingness and nothingness, a promise of movement and apprehension of rest, inheres the ultimate harmony of the Oneness she wanted with him. 
Yet such beauty ~~ of things, and bodies, and the spheres of reality that make up vision and give it purpose ~~ simultaneously combines into a pouring over of love. And this overabundance, in turn, emanates from the Good of the intellect, from the process that never ends commencing. 
Everything that separated them was falling away while culminating in a symbol of harmony: the reality to which all beautiful things are related and upon which their individual experience of beauty depends: the sinking, falling and fitting into place in the nesting area at the seat of desire and fear, a place where sensations reign over one another with such intensity that each cancels the other out, overturning itself into multitudes: their entities pulsed with awe. 
They did not know they were falling in love until later, after they got home and went through all the pictures. 
In the meantime, there were more photos from the following day. First they took some of each other on the balcony overlooking the Pacific through a frame of leaves. (The concierge had apologized because tree branches obstructed the view, but she could not tell. To her the horizon of water across the world as they consumed each other ~~ a vista that said, This man likes you and is giving you a weekend of which you have only dreamed ~~ was among the most extraordinary visions she had ever seen.) 
Then there was the cascade of pictures of her in the fluorescent orange bikini, walking down the hallway, and even more as they awaited the elevator on a patio overlooking the alcove where the hotel was ensconced. She did not think to suck in her stomach, perhaps because she was so overcome by the sense that, no matter what ran through her mind, all he saw was a woman with whom he wanted to make love. 
Also there were the pictures of her on the beach, which he snapped when she was aware and sometimes when she was not. He always said his favorite was the one where she’s skipping toward the water, with her arms outstretched behind her, a ponytail of ocean-washed hair aloft and suspended in sun. “You look so carefree,” he would say again and again, and maybe, for him, that moment was when it began. If she could just be that person always, he would insist, she would be the woman he fell in love with and they wouldn’t have any problems. 
Lest I forget, there were the pictures of her on a footbridge amongst a sort of mini-jungle almost, as they made their way back from the swimming pool, which was a few staircases removed from the beach and hidden by trees. She’d swum up and down and around him, their skin touching as she brushed past, so lightly and perfectly that he’d had to stay in the water an extra 15 minutes until his erection went down. 
There were the pictures in Zihuatanejo just over the hill, before they left back to Mexico City. By this point anyone could tell. A warmth soothed her face, and likewise his, in these instants of defenselessness during their walk through a little park along the ocean’s edge, punctuated in her memory with the sounds of seagulls and children dashing in and out of frame. There was a picture of them together there, somewhat backlit but still discernible due to the light that shone from them ~~ and one of her, moments later, choosing from among purple and magenta painted and glazed cardboard apples, inside one the shops overflowing with rainbows of these “alebrijes.” 
That afternoon and the next morning there were pictures of them back in Mexico City, where they dipped into coffee shops and bakeries. You can just see how she was so happy in every single one. 
The only part where they forgot to take pictures was after Aeromexico accommodated them and found two seats next to one another, in their own private exit row, and they did stuff like peek into each other’s pants all the way home. 
But really it is the accidental picture, the one he took as if by reflex while they were awaiting the car from valet at the hotel in Ixtapa, that encapsulates the weekend, and everything they had 
been creating together up until then, and ever would. In this image, his right eyelid is drooping ever so much, his skin is gleaming with sweat in the humidity, as is hers, and his irises radiate a clear lively brown the glint of which parallels her smile. She is leaning into him, her forehead against the side of his skull. 
It was the instant of tumbling into love. 
  
Moment Seven: 
“Mom, We All Really Like Him” 
He was to commence meeting her family at Thanksgiving. Although the import escaped her at the time, she had not introduced a man she was seeing to either of her parents since blond-haired and blue-eyed Alexander rode across the country in a series of buses to visit her in California before she left to Guatemala for the summer, when she was 18 years old. 
Her brother Edward had met her most recent boyfriend, Yigal the Persian-Jew, who, as you know, physically resembled what Aureliano might have looked like a decade-and-a-half before ~~ only Yigal was bigger and taller. 
She had felt proud but also somewhat embarrassed when Yigal had appeared as planned for dinner with Edward and her future sister-in-law at Mitali East. They sat within spitting distance of the table where she would sit with Aureliano on their second date two years later, and where she had sat the year before for her reunion with Robert the golden-eyed Guyanese. 
Introducing Yigal made her self-conscious because at last she had met a man, a tall, good-looking and well put-together man, who was nice to her and could carry on a conversation. Even if she might have fancied more ~~ for instance, someone closer to where she found herself at that point in her life, someone ever so further along on the spectrum of independence ~~ still, he was more than she deserved. 
The shame kept her on edge for every sentence of the conversation, as she sat there worrying that this man with whom she had by then exchanged I Love Yous would say or do something unexpected, reveal a weakness of hers or of his, offend someone at the table or engage in an impropriety, somehow dispel the illusion that this dinner, and everything that preceded it, were. And so she was surprised, and relieved, as each moment, one by one, and eventually the whole dinner, went off without a hitch. 
At heart, it was the notion, deep down where it ate away at the bedrock of her subconscious, that normalcy lay beyond her reach. 
For the past several years prior to meeting Yigal, she had trained herself to accept that, even if she merited someone special simply by being human, no one would want her once they found out more about her past and who she was. 
Alone, she stared into the mirror over and over again until all she saw was someone wrong. 
Out in the world, as she passed couples kissing or holding hands on the street, she made herself retch, or she dug her fingernails into her palms until they almost bled, so that she might associate love with pain and discomfort, instead of possibility ~~ a Pavlovian exercise designed to cut off dreams and stop her from even imagining they could happen. 
Yigal appeared after she had tightened this tourniquet around her heart. And when they became one of those couples she loathed and envied, her vision of the world turned so inside out that she did not know what to do. 
She boxed him into commitments, and nitpicked, and ultimately took solace in being rendered to a pulp after the relationship ended. 
Beneath these layers of defensiveness lies the Ideal-Form of Beauty to which her intellect forever strives, grouped and coordinated from a diversity of parts into what will inevitably unify. The process rallies confusion into cooperation: from the sum of individualities derives one coherence, and there, where imagination combines with reality, arise all Ideas from the variegation of experience into one. 
 On what has thus been compressed to form harmony, Beauty enthrones itself, turning its components over to feeling and sensation as a totality: when Beauty alights in unison, then the elements give themselves over to the whole. 
She is overcome by the simplicity of this grandeur. The process of unification whenever she falls in love resembles the wonder that overcomes her when she sees pictures of stars. In one 
image inheres the multiplicity of the universe, a complex singularity that represents more than it could ever seek to contain, even in the form of Ideas, or Ideals, and even when those potentialities distill the Ideal Form of Beauty from which her aspiration to appreciate such vastness comes. 
Does material experience become beauty through communication? The act of coupling forms the vein that carries the life-blood of love, flooding that over-busy intellect where the desire to pair began. 
Memories she shared with Yigal the Persian-Jew were now receding into the past as waves of passion for Aureliano continued to overtake her. By this point in their love affair, there had already been another bike ride ~~ the last one they will probably take together, as you recollect I mentioned, though he had by now installed the second bike rack on the old tan Volvo station wagon, where it would stay unused for the next six years ~~ and a couple dinners, including one where he suffered through her vegetarian lasagna with home-made sauce and smoked mozzarella ~~ and, most notably, several evenings and mornings of sex that exceeded her fantasies. 
Speaking of which, he could last a long time ~~ long enough for her to work through a sufficient measure of her hang-ups and reservations and fears and self-loathing and distrust to reach orgasm. He did not seem to care that she broke into a sweat from the effort, especially up in her loft bed where the radiator pipe next to them rumbled. He even seemed to enjoy the beads of perspiration on her body, which he rubbed around with his fingers. And he did this thing where he kissed the back of her knees and sent shudders all over. 
She took nothing for granted and was just as surprised when he showed up at her apartment every weekend. Each time was, for her, the first time, at least over the next three months, until everything changed and went to hell. 
Afterward, on Sunday night or maybe Monday morning if he stayed a little longer, she would sit on the futon couch, the left arm of which her pit bull had gnawed around the edges, and look out the window, the only real window in her apartment ~~ sure, there were four others, and they were big, but they faced out into the air shaft and she was on the ground floor ~~ and, 
whenever he had scored a parking spot across the street from her building, she would watch him warm up the old tan Volvo station wagon and then drive off, leaving her to long for next time. 
And to think: all those weekends were just beginning. 
Thanksgiving. 
She would never have acknowledged that her patterns and routines ensnarled the prospect of introducing Aureliano to Edward and his now-wife and their daughter Isabel, and also her father who happened to be in town for his annual trip back East. She was too preoccupied with the concern that Aureliano would cancel at the last minute, or he simply wouldn’t show ~~ that he was, in essence, imaginary. 
He picked her up to head out to Queens wearing the intricately plaid jacket he’d worn on their second date. A little bubble of pride warmed her stomach: he had dressed up to meet her family!! She was in the type of real, adult relationship that, until now, she had not even dreamt about. She felt very happy to have reached the threshold of being like other people; she’d never wanted to be normal before, not explicitly, and today she wanted to do everything she could to help the feeling last long enough to remember. 
It was not the afternoon itself that you probably want, that is, any particular moment in her brother Edward’s apartment in Long Island City on the 17th floor overlooking the East River, with the window wide open too late in the year, giving the place a stark airiness that recalled, for her, the feel of Cairo in winter. It was not the interval when Aureliano sat in the desk chair talking to her father who reclined on the couch, asking questions about the public works and other projects that Aureliano had recently managed or was currently working on building. It was not the several moments she watched this boyfriend of hers hold Isabel ~~ then a six-month old baby and, six years later, the person with whom this book will end ~~ patting her back like such an expert that a part of her, which she immediately beat back, wondered whether he had, somewhere in secret, a wife and family of his own. Nor was it the cloud on which they floated back home to her apartment where they made love. 
Rather, it is the moment over the phone a couple days later, during a conversation about that Thanksgiving in Queens, when her mom related how Edward had said, “Oh, Mom, Audrey has finally met a nice guy and we all really like him.” 
  
Moment Eight: 
An Embrace So Close to Far 
If memory serves her, she took the train up from Manhattan on this particular afternoon. Train rides soothed her, and, although she resisted the Metro-North because it ran on a schedule and schedules alienated her, once she finally managed to get herself into place in a car, she always wished the ride lasted longer. 
After departing Grand Central, where she and Aureliano would meet a couple years later for a fated afternoon, the train sucked in a few more passengers above East Harlem, and then sped through the Bronx and further onward into Westchester County and money. It was still early enough in their relationship that she wanted to please him and thought this little excursion might make a difference: she had a question that had been rattling around in her mind for a while now. 
There were no fences enclosing the properties on the block with the big old house where he was living in Katonah, which he had chosen to escape the Marriott in White Plains near the project he had come east to manage. The hamlet was home to less than two thousand people (including Martha Stewart, whose nearby estate he pointed out on a drive one afternoon), and the center of town, if a town it could be so called, comprised a collection of shops clustering around the train station. It was the type of place where you might stroll into the hardware store after taking a shortcut over your back lawn. 
The first time she had been there, probably two or three weeks before, they had entered through the side door to the kitchen. The décor leapt at her from an episode of Mad Men in the initial season. 
She must have knocked on the kitchen door this time, for she remembers wondering whether she had previously noted the extent of the liquor collection near the pantry, from which he selected a bottle and poured himself a drink. She thinks that he then led her into the living room, 
where they likely disappeared into the cushions of the plush couch facing a giant TV screen, encircled by powerful speakers. He probably turned some music on. He usually did. 
Assuming it all happened this way, they started right there. He got her down to her underwear, which she’d chosen especially for the moment when he drew her jeans open. He already had an erection. She made a mental note to figure out today for sure whether he was circumcised. 
How was it that she still did not know? Why did he literally always have an erection whenever she remembered to wonder?  It sounded crazy and every part of her knew it. She felt embarrassed and ashamed. 
But also very excited. His roommate Sergio, the owner of the house, could conceivably walk in at any time. Supposedly, Sergio was away on business, but still. Her skin flamed. 
They made their way upstairs, maybe in underwear, maybe naked, and probably fumbling all over each other. There was a cross over his bed, which she took note of ~~ although they wouldn’t have a conversation about religion until near the end, one of the most recent ends I mean, and even then he would suffocate the discussion at infancy. 
He slipped her in between the sheets, which were very clean and smelled the way he did after a shower. 
And everything sank away. 
She feared it was not for her to speak, ever, of the forms of grace from the world that she appreciated, and to which she endeavored, for she had never in fact seen them or known their elegance firsthand ~~ they were, to her, like imaginings of vision from behind the blindness that her spiritual condition imposed. She kept herself silent on the beauty of nobility and order as though she had never cared for such things, although in truth she cared deeply, and, in the end, cared for little else. 
Nor did she dare imagine the splendor of virtue to the extent she wished, for she had not known virtuousness herself, just as she had not known the selflessness and devotion that she so 
much admired in others. She recognized that she might never achieve that humanity, and would instead always be reaching for, but never touching, the Moral-Wisdom made beautiful beyond the beauty of the power behind evening and dawn. 
Visions of this sort were reserved for others who saw with the Soul’s sight, not her ~~ those for whom the unfolding spectacle itself would rejoice. A stupor fell before the trouble that hampered her stirred, and she moved, as if apart from herself, outside the realm of Truth. 
This effervescence of spirit was the form of life that Beauty must ever induce: wonderment and trouble made delicious, a longing and a love and a trembling that was all delight. Being human, but less than fully so, she felt alone ~~ even with him in his bed ~~ for they were together in that great big empty house teeming with the ghosts of a past that was not hers and a future where she would be, always, by herself. 
She probably came that time. She is certain that he did. 
Or, rather, her certainty is relative. She feels almost positive that that particular late-afternoon of lovemaking ~~ in which his baby blue bedroom started out faintly lit by the remnants of dusk and settled further into darkness with every caress ~~ was the same one that preceded the conversation they were about to have. And, if not, so what? 
On her way down the hall to the bathroom, the floorboards creaked under her footsteps. She could never have lived in a house like this one herself ~~ not ever since the assault just shy of five years ago, you remember, and probably not even if that event had never happened. She was used to her little apartment, stacked among her neighbors and protected by window bars that kept out danger while she slept. 
That vulnerability overcame her now, as she made her way back down the hallway, naked in the space enclosed by the walls of this house, so trembling with expectancy on the wings of pleasure that she may even have failed to catch a drop or urine, or even two, on the tips of her pubic hair. 
Was it really this afternoon when they found themselves in that 1950s dining room ~~ she seated at the table and he standing over her, his eyes alive with desire? 
Now, really, she doesn’t remember. 
Really, it doesn’t matter. 
She had been holding back for quite some time, an interval that had stretched into eons, for her, due to the gravity of what she was about to say, but which was, in fact, probably no more than several days. 
It’s just that time had come to mean something different ever since she had quivered into happiness and allowed him inside the bubble where she felt things. 
The air buzzed between them as he looked down at her, waiting for her to speak, and she looked back up at him. 
It was then, among the phantoms of that great big house, that she thought of the passage from Jhumpa Lahiri’s novel The Namesake, of which I have written somewhere else, where a female character takes the reigns and pops the question to the male whom the book is about. Audrey wants to think those characters were, at that phase in their tale, seated in a horse-drawn carriage, on a special date out on the streets of New York. But probably it was something more mundane, like in a cab on the way home to cook dinner, and, in any case, the proposal in the book happened out of the blue ~~ unlike now, an interaction conceived to await expression, having incubated anxiety within her and been birthed from the only pregnancy of which she was capable. 
The non-traditionality of the girl asking the guy ~~ punctuated in this instance by his Mexican heritage of machismo, the rugged tension that attracted her, along with danger ~~ lay before them in contrast to that 1950s dining room, feigning life with a few lace doilies on the table and china and pewter in the glass-doored cabinet along the wall. 
Her hands were shaking. 
He took her chin in his palm. 
“Will you marry me?” she sputtered. 
The moment I gather you will want to choose was right then, when he held her so tightly, and she knew that the embrace was as close as she would ever get. 
  
Moment Nine: 
On Her Knees 
The sensation of floating together on a cloud lasted through the New Year. Even during this handful of weeks she knew ~~ albeit without acknowledging her knowledge ~~ that she would be granted only a finite period of time in which to be happy, which she must cherish, before the edges, eroding from the very start, and further the more she ignored them, swallowed the middle. 
The first part of falling in love was always her favorite. Because she detested herself so, losing her individuality into the vacuum of affection yielded forgetting. Also there was something about saying I Love You in winter. It had happened with Yigal the Persian-Jew, and with Secret Crush Amanda back when she was 16, just months prior to that fateful night with Hawk-nosed Greg in his father’s café ~~ and now with Aureliano who was, dare she say it… her fiancé… at least, for another few months, before the fairy tale shattered. 
She had first gotten to know SoHo during her freshman year at NYU, when the city was a world to explore, rather than just get through on the way from one cell in the air to another. She would go swimming at Coles Sports Center on Mercer just north of Houston, and then maybe pick up a bagel at the café across the street, or wander through the over-stacked aisles of arcane hardbacks in the bookstore next door. 
Perhaps she would head south a block or two and wonder how much longer the cobblestone streets would persist. Being in SoHo always conjured up Woody Allen’s Hannah and Her Sisters, one of her very favorite movies back then ~~ in particular the scene where Michael Caine’s character spies on Barbara Herschey’s, waiting for her on the street until she exits the loft where she lives with her boyfriend, an artist played by Max von Sydow. Michael Caine dashes around a series of street corners as Barbara Hershey walks toward wherever she is going, until all of a sudden she looks up and sees him checking his watch and acting all surprised, and they duck into 
a bookstore and browse, and he buys her an e. e. cummings book, and then, as she steps into a cab and he says Goodbye, he reminds her to read the poem on page 112. 
It was a different New York, a graffitied and gritty city that still had bookstores with overflowing shelves to get lost in and emerge from bearing a volume of poetry. That place in time was different and yet not so, since the New York she had come to know was perpetually changing back into itself. 
The poem on page 112 has always been one of Audrey’s favorites, ever since that movie, and especially the stanza Barbara Hershey’s character reads later that evening in bed: (i do not know what it is about you that closes / and opens;only something in me understands / the voice of your eyes is deeper than all roses) / nobody, not even the rain, has such small hands. 
Somewhere further on in the film ~~ at first, she thought it was at the end of that scene, but she Googles it and discovers that it must be later, at least by a couple scenes ~~ Michael Caine’s character either runs into Barbara Hershey’s on the street again, or somehow manages to see her once more, or maybe it’s after they start their affair, or way before ~~ she doesn’t know, she’s a little confused now ~~ still, there is a memory she has from the movie, and in her mind’s eye this memory, whether real or imagined, is very clear: she sees Michael Caine’s character standing there on the street, with one of those Woody Allen monologues going on that she used to so adore, and he says, in her recollection, “I’m walking on air.” 
She repeats those words to herself now, as she and Aureliano stroll down Mercer Street, holding hands. They see a lingerie store called Agent Provocateur ~~ she has never gone lingerie shopping with a man before ~~ and her heartbeat intensifies. 
The flush is like the one that overcame her in the big old house in Katonah, with its dark hallways where she might not have felt so brave without him in the bedroom nearby. 
Courage, for her, derived from fearlessness of the death which amounted to but a parting of the Soul and the body, an event that she dreaded as a prospect but lost fear of as she imagined delighting in being her unmingled self, at long last. Life asked for a Magnanimity that disregarded 
the lure of desires tethering her to the earth. Wisdom was no more, and no less, than the Act of the Intellectual-Principle that defined her place among society, withdrawn from the lower places so it might lead the Soul to Above, notwithstanding the weight of prejudice and hatred that encumbered the longing for normalcy that she had found. 
There, in the clouds beyond the storm of humanity, the Soul grows cleansed until it is all Idea and Reason, free of the body still ambling below, intellective, entirely of that divine order from which the wellspring of Beauty rises ~~ the same process that created the desire welling up for him now, inside Agent Provocateur, as he drew aside the curtain to the changing room ever so much, and watched her trying on the black lace minidress he’d picked out. 
“What are you doing in here?” she remembers asking. 
It was the feeling of the feeling of him. The skin all over her whole body still flushed. 
She smiled, and touched him back. 
And with that touch her Soul heightened to the Intellectual-Principle that glistened with beautifulness in all its power, an amalgam of intellection and all that proceeded therefrom. 
The Soul may become a good and beautiful thing ~~ as it did when he paid for her new sexy minidress without thinking, an instant at the cash register in which her heart skipped a beat because she could hardly believe she was worth the same amount that a man would spend on any other woman: here he was paying a few hundred dollars for this piece of lace that only he would see, something special for her and her alone, a material item which, though she would have shuddered to know it then ~~ although, deep down, maybe she did ~~ she would only wear for him once. 
Years later, well after he moved back to California, he would keep that lace minidress in the nightstand next to his bed, maybe as a memento of what could have been. In the meantime, this process of the Soul’s becoming was the transformation of its likeness to what God must have 
wanted, a resplendence untouched in purity, for from the Divine derives all the Beauty and Good in Beings. 
The Good was both the closest thing and the furthest thing from her thoughts as they walked back down Houston Street on the way home to her apartment. It must have been cold, not the cold that freezes the bones with the dead of winter, but likely that onset-of-winter temperature, a zone in which the prospect of the coming months somehow renders the cold even colder, unlike the cold of spring, which is, of course, a cold that, while seeming colder than it should be because it has gone on so long, nevertheless twinges with warmth from the knowledge that winter will soon end. 
He had an erection the entire walk. It tented his jeans and she could totally see it. She reached out at a couple points, right there on Houston west of the Bowery, in front of the sliver of block where that semi-outdoors semi-antique place used to be, and it was okay because they were in love and no one saw, or maybe someone did. She laughed, and he did too, unembarrassed, because the world around them had tumbled away. 
You might choose any moment on that walk home, or maybe just the whole walk itself, as their desire to have sex just built and built, arching into kisses they shared on an afternoon as perfect as one in December ever comes. Or, you might choose their lovemaking afterward, in her loft up close to the ceiling next to the clanking radiator pipe, when she looked down at him and felt so much love that she burst and so did he and they came at the same time. 
But then there is that moment before, in the bathroom once she’s tinkled and put on the lace minidress and fluffed her hair, and there he is, having slipped in like he slipped into the dressing room at Agent Provocateur ~~ and she descends to her knees promising herself that this time she will remember to figure out whether he is circumcised, unzipping his jeans which remain tented from a half-hour ago, and looking up at him with a mixture of lust and terror sparkling in her eyes. 
Those green eyes that, years later, when he said he missed her during one of their black holes of a conversation on the phone, he remembered as blue. 
  
Moment Ten: 
The Precipice of Yes 
As much as she wanted to let go during sex when Aureliano asked her to, she could never relinquish something she no longer had: the innocence taken in second grade. 
She lived two blocks away from school and had started walking on her own the year before. Back then she was in a mixed first and second grade class, which is how she developed her crushes on Sexy-lipped Joshua and Unibrow Kurt, who were both one year older. When she was supposed to be working on printing with the other first graders, she would instead sneak glances up at the wall above the blackboard and try to memorize the alphabet in cursive, which she longed to learn because it was so pretty, and also because it was how adults wrote, and she wanted to be an adult so she could be free. (Incidentally, she recognized that adulthood also meant obligations, and so she yearned for responsibility, as well.) 
Every morning she would race the Ellison sisters ~~ they lived one block closer to school and came out to walk the rest of the way with her ~~ to see who could do the most sprinklers. The object was to step on the heads that had come up to water the lawns overnight, but had gotten stuck after the water cycle, and didn’t go down. 
She was tested, and she qualified for gifted and talented education at the school across town. If only she’d gone as soon as she could have, rather than the following year, as a third grader. 
Then it never would have happened, and she might have turned out to be someone else. 
Mr. Bagsby was new the year that she started second grade. No one knew anything about him except that he had just shown up in those tan corduroy slacks he always wore, one size too short, and those light tan suede shoes tied tight. He covered the classroom walls with posters of Corvettes and 2001: A Space Odyssey, and he said things like, “Up your nose with a rubber hose.” 
At first she sat in the back of the classroom close to Candi, whom Audrey now realizes was probably getting it, too. 
Candi was a sickly child with pale skin and bony limbs. Her light brown hair clung to her forehead in oily strips, and, depending on how prominent her overbite seemed on any particular day, her face could at times be mostly teeth. Candi threw up a lot, often in the middle of class ~~ barfing out a sort of oatmeal-colored fluid. Sometimes she would make it to the sink at the counter behind them; other times, not. 
Soon Mr. Bagsby was told about Audrey’s test scores, or he discovered her capacities on his own, and he entrusted her with the adult chores she so longed for: she was appointed classroom monitor and fly monitor at the same time. 
Being classroom monitor entailed telling on anyone who broke the rules when Mr. Bagsby wasn’t looking. Audrey loathed tattling, though, and so she rarely did, instead utilizing her position to manipulate enemies into assets. 
Eventually Mr. Bagsby moved her to the first row, right up there in front of him, with their desks almost touching. And there it was that she lay in wait for weeks until the opportunity came… and she slammed the fly swatter down on a big one right in the center of his gradebook. 
His pale face, behind the strawberry beard he kept trimmed to perfection, turned red, and the purple veins in his temples pulsed. 
After enough time had passed, she would be able to look back on her childhood with fondness, particularly in light of how the seeds she unwittingly sowed ~~ with Joshua and Kurt, for example ~~ sprouted into moments that fluoresced years later, and enabled her to glimpse the durability of her spirit, stuffed down and battered into submission for the moment, but not broken, and certainly still alive despite everything that was being done to it, and what she would do, herself. 
How else was she to see into the virtuousness of a Soul so hidden, and to know its loveliness? If anything, the force pulling her to act out was a voice that entreated her to look inward. Should she fail to find herself beautiful yet, it counseled her, act as does the creator of a statue that is to be made beautiful: he cuts away here, he smoothens there, he makes this line lighter, this other purer, until a lovely face has emerged. 
She wanted to be beautiful. And the life inside of her knew it. 
So do you also, it instructed: cut away all that is excessive, straighten all that is crooked, bring light to all that is overcast, labor to make all one glow of beauty and never cease chiseling the statue of you, until there shall shine on your Soul the splendor of virtue, until you shall see the goodness without obstruction. 
She always tried her best. 
The classroom and fly monitor positions yielded in time to curtain duty. 
She had to drag those heavy, light-blocking plastic tarps across the entire side wall of windows, facing out on the back playground, the one she didn’t want to go to unless she was headed all the way to the edge of the soccer field, where she could hide under the bushes at the fence near the alley. 
And after curtain duty it was the duties she attended to at his desk, sitting on his lap, his knees knocking against the metal drawers as he swiveled around in his chair. 
And after desk duties it was the duties that she remembers only in flickers, like frames from a silent film for which most of the spools have been lost. 
Flickers and flashes. 
The frame where she is perched on his thigh and his pants are unzipped. 
The one where she is on her knees in front of him. 
The strangely upside down ones of his chair and the desk legs, and the walls with the Corvettes and 2001: A Space Odyssey. 
The close-ups of his hands, sprinkled with pinkish wisps of hair ~~ and his dry freckled skin and impeccable fingernails. 
And always, over and over again, those curtains, those heavy plastic curtains that were the same color as Mr. Bagsby’s light tan slacks, mixed with Candi’s vomit. 
The memories swirl around the globe of her consciousness, often going years and years before they end up directly overhead again. In those vortexes of time and place, she must stop, cry the tears that she hopes will wash away the scum of the past so she can see it clearly again ~~ and sometimes, when the clouds start to disperse, she does begin to see a little more ~~ but eventually the present wave slips back into the next one, which crashes into her. 
It is at one of those point breaks that she rushes home from her morning run in Los Angeles years later, on a day very near the end of this story, and picks up her phone the instant she walks in. 
“Mom,” she says, and immediately she asks about the navy blue Speedo, a boy’s swimsuit that she used to wear to school. “Did I start doing that in second grade?” 
“Yes.” 
“Mom, I think I wore that Speedo because I thought if I tied it tight enough that Mr. Bagsby couldn’t get to me.” 
“Yes, I know,” her mom says. “You’ve told me that before.” 
But there is something else, another detail that she has clawed back. 
“Mom, I remember tying it in a double knot.” 
The memory is, for now, as clear as it will get. She must accept how, for the time being at least, and possibly forever, the past will remain underwater. 
A broken part of you may want to choose the moment she is pretty sure it all began ~~ in his red Corvette on the busy street parallel to the one with the sprinklers, the same street where, in a few years, after she transferred to the school across town, she would go for piano lessons from Mrs. Stack, and also where she’d ride in the car on the way home with her fifth grade best friend’s mother, who once said, “I just love when the trees cover the whole street, like angels protecting us.” 
It was on that busy street with all those angel trees where, with your mind’s eye, you can see, in the light dappling in through the Afghan quilt of leaves overhead, Mr. Bagsby’s pale, lightly haired hand: it reaches over from the gearshift, through the air, and comes to rest on her little thigh. 
She feels so important in that moment ~~ fly monitor, classroom monitor ~~ and now someone so special as to get a ride in the red Corvette. 
But just as she feels his palm alight on her skin, the memory shrinks toward a tide pool of black, like one of those fades in a silent film that is the past. The screen swallows itself up into a circle at the center, and then everything vanishes. 
The moment you may rather choose happened prior to that ride, as she stood on the sidewalk in front of school, right after Mr. Bagsby asked her if she wanted a lift home and right before she said, “Yes.” 
  
Moment Eleven: 
Before We Fuck It Up 
There was just something about being in a car together that they both loved. Years later, during a phone conversation when they were on again, or at least one of the periods in which they were talking, he would mention to her, almost offhandedly, that he liked to drive because it calmed him down. 
“It’s my therapy,” he said. 
He was making fun of her, kind of, about seeing the same therapist and getting nowhere for so long, but she let it go and imagined him in the old tan Volvo station wagon, which now had over 300,000 miles and still ran like clockwork, speeding across some highway out in the West, through the desert, with no one else around, or toward the mountains, like the peaks of the Rockies in the background of that very first picture he had e-mailed to her. 
For her part, driving soothed her less because it was a metaphor, even amounting to a veritable form, of escape, than because ~~ no matter where she was or where she was going ~~ being propelled forward took her back in space and time, all the way to the very first DMV appointment on the morning of her birthday, when she was turning 16 to the minute, literally right as she was taking her driving test. 
Over the course of that virgin driving year, a half-dozen or so places in her hometown solidified into a routine of spots that she would drive among almost every night, sprinting around in the grey Volvo sedan that she had inherited from her grandfather, and then, after she wrecked that relic in an accident with a pregnant woman, a baby blue Camry that she infused with smoke from one cheap pack of cigarettes after another, having picked up the habit from her first love. 
Amanda, whom I alluded to before, was a chain-smoker who had been in and out of rehab three times before they got together. She wore her almost-white blond hair in a short bob, was flat-chested, and had muscular calves. 
She was a dream. 
The way it happened was this: Amanda called up Audrey one night while Audrey was working on the face of a singing woman, inspired by Billie Holiday, about a third of the way through the 18-foot mural of oils on canvas that she painted in her final semester of high school. 
“I have a secret crush on you,” Amanda had said, to which Audrey had replied, “I have a secret crush on you, too.” Then they’d hung up, and, in the coming weeks, fallen in love. 
Audrey and Amanda found a couple places they loved more than anything to drive together, like the African coffee plantation, as they called it, a farm way beyond the outskirts of town, almost near the foothills, or the old big white mansion where they’d sit parked across the street and wonder what happened inside, listening to “Voices Carry” by ‘Til Tuesday ~~ a song that Audrey always thought said, “Oh Charles, keep it down now, this is Carrie,” until the Internet arrived and she found out the lyrics were, “Hush hush, keep it down now, voices carry…” Duh. 
Secret Crush Amanda had been in the car for the accident with the pregnant woman. She was smoking, of course, and she held her cigarette as the car spun in circles across the busiest street in town. Afterward the police officer had said, “It’s a good thing you were wearing your seatbelts, see how they can save lives?” Neither of them had been wearing one, though, because they were rebels. 
 They were so in love during those first several weeks that they didn’t want to sleep because it meant being apart. One morning in particular, at Roosevelt Park across the street from where Audrey had gone to jr. high (in the halls of which she had experienced her first kiss with Jessica, who exuded Exclamation! perfume, and also had pre-liked sweet, Non-gangbanger Gerardo), they sat there in the car, smelling of stale smoke and teenager, aching from part delirium and part urge beyond quench to just make the fuck out. 
Audrey and Amanda stayed together for three months. 
After they broke up, in the last half-year that Audrey spent in her hometown, she mostly drove alone, first in one direction out to the house where a dusty-blond swimmer I’ll call Sean lived (Scandinavian Sean, as you remember, was a friend of Amanda’s whom Audrey developed a very severe crush on but who did not reciprocate). And then it was over to Adam’s house (Broad-shouldered Adam, as you’ll also recall, was a football player from history class who was the very first person Audrey revealed her secret to). 
Finally, after Adam’s, it was over to the park in the sketchy park of town, down by the river, where she left pieces of her soul that might never grow back. 
She liked the movement above all else; it made her feel she was going somewhere and could be someone, like the lyrics from Tracy Chapman’s “Fast Car” that she sang over and over again as she smoked, and drove, and drove. 
All those nights she still believed that her Soul had beauty, no matter the depths to which she had just sunk in acting out at the park, and, even if that beauty was less beautiful than the Intellect she utilized to contort reality, the image bent so that her nature could manifest. If her Soul had been so lovely in its own right, she would have wondered what quality its preceding state would have to have been. 
The only remaining question was what the power from which the Soul takes beauty would be ~~ borrowed, as it were, from the inherent in her. She possessed beauty, she believed, only because she held true to the basest parts of herself; such that her self-knowledge, insofar as she could claim it, beautified her, while leftovers of self-ignorance rendered her uglier than she felt. 
Could this acceptance of the Intellectual Sphere get her away from herself, and the base and ugly behavior that rendered her so, or would she have to make yet another attempt by another road? 
Yes. 
Sure enough, the roads that she and Aureliano found as they explored the tri-state area in his old tan Volvo station wagon made her so, so wistful. 
One winter day, strangely warm right after it had snowed, they were driving through the side roads around Katonah, and all around unfolded into a wonderland of melting white. He looked over at her from time to time, but she didn’t notice mostly, for she was staring out the window with her mouth agape. The beauty!! It was as though she could hear, right through the windows, the entire world dripping from the trees through the air and onto the banks of untouched snow-cone-like powder rolled out in a carpet of silence crackling over the ground. 
Another time, a much colder day, they drove and drove and drove and ended up in Mystic, Connecticut, which was supposed to be a place to go in the summer, but they didn’t care, they ate at Mystic Pizza anyway. The walls swelled with pictures of the movie with Julia Roberts that had been shot there. 
Afterward she convinced him to drive out to the ocean, which she wanted to see because she always missed it during winter, when the weather coffined her in Manhattan and it was way too freezing to ride out on her bike. They snapped a picture as the sun set over a frigid Atlantic, and you can see the tears in her eyes from the wind and cold. 
On the drive home she asked him why relationships between men and women always get fucked up. Her asked her, in response, whether she really wanted to know. 
They were laughing because it was so funny, for some reason, although they both knew that it wasn’t. 
She wanted to remember his explanation, and she knew she would forget (just like he had already noticed that she so frequently did, even if he pulled back from commenting, or yelling, that she never listened, until much later), if she didn’t memorialize what he said on her phone: 
Reasons females fuck up relationships: 
1. Remember commitments and honor them. 
2. Never assume. If you have something to say, or feel or sense something, then bring it up. 
3. Do not use disclosures made in confidence against each other. 
4. If all else fails, just ask. 
5. Ditch the hang-ups and be intimate. 
6. Her personal characteristics. 
Reasons males fuck up relationships: 
A. Intolerance. 
B. Unintentional “criticism” re hang-ups. 
C. Emotional distancing re hang-ups and disclosures. 
D. A male would prefer to resolve A – C with a female and is not concerned with who’s at fault; a failure will result in self-destructive behavior. 
E. His personal characteristics ~~ jealousy? 
You might choose that moment particularly, in the passenger seat of the old tan Volvo station wagon that she’d grown to adore (with its aging leather cracked at the edges and the rest of it), overwarm from the heater, laughing so hard now that her stomach pulsed with ache, prior to when their personal characteristics fucked everything up. 
  
Moment Twelve: 
Love Among the (Soiled) Sheets 
She was so excited to see his friends Juan Carlos and Bruno again. She ended up rushing to the bar on Houston and First where they were supposed to meet, because, as usual, she had waited up until the last minute, and then some, to leave her apartment, and she was already late. 
Aureliano had once remarked that he liked how New York women wore short skirts and boots. And so she slipped on her jean miniskirt and tights, even though the January night outside threatened to freeze her to the marrow. 
When was the last time a guy introduced her to his friends? Had it ever happened, except maybe in Egypt, where people were friendly and moved in the flow of things, with less of a divide between personal and shared space, in general? It occurred once in Israel, and in Guatemala, for the same reason, or maybe more by happenstance than anything else. Other than those instances, the only other time she recalled was her first boyfriend in college, though she’s pretty sure that she met his best friend that one late night / early morning at the Waverly Restaurant on Sixth Avenue over a plate of spinach (the friend was battling a cold and thought spinach would help), well before they finally got together. 
The first time she had met Juan Carlos and Bruno was at Good Stuff, where she intended to introduce them to American diner food. Of course she should have known better ~~ Aureliano was cosmopolitan, as were his buddies. 
When Juan Carlos’s order arrived, he leaned over the pile of food on his plate and said that he was going to “dominate” it. She missed the turn of phrase in Spanish and Aureliano translated too late for her to giggle. 
Bruno once said that working with Juan Carlos at the Mexican industrial equipment supply company where they were both employed was like collaborating with Walt Disney. Juan Carlos saw the world in a different way, you could just tell. 
Sure enough, when Aureliano showed Juan Carlos the painting that Audrey had made of the two of them together awaiting the car in Ixtapa, he had apparently talked about it for 15 or 20 minutes. Years later, Audrey asked Aureliano what Juan Carlos had said, but Aureliano just brushed her off as usual, saying he didn’t remember. She never knew when he was going to be mean; she just knew that it would happen at some point, and, no matter how prepared she thought she was, no matter how thick her skin had become and how hardened her heart had grown, despite how she had come not only to expect the daggers of speech but to await them as inevitable, something she deserved ~~ no matter, the blows knocked a breath out of her. 
Back at Good Stuff, though, she was still so in love that she couldn’t see it coming. She was just proud to sit next to a man, trying to be friendly and please his amigos. 
They kicked back a few cocktails over dinner. 
She had stopped drinking a while ago because, when she kept getting tired and depressed after a glass of wine with dinner, she had realized that alcohol made her tired and depressed, and, now that her first year of law school was distant in the past and she no longer had to drink herself through it ~~ to the point where she consumed Vodka nightly just to bang herself down into a fitful sleep, what a horrible period ~~ she didn’t really like to be around drinking at all. 
And so she smiled, and cast her eyelashes down every once in a while, and laughed whenever she could. She hoped that Aureliano would come over that night and make love to her, but she knew that maybe he’d go back home to Katonah. 
She was right. He told her the next day that, as he was driving them home ~~ and of course all three were drunk by then, having gone out until late to some club in the Meatpacking District she’d never heard of before and didn’t care about ~~ that Bruno wondered out loud what on 
earth Audrey saw in Aureliano, and Juan Carlos, who they thought was sleeping as he lay across the back seat in the old tan Volvo station wagon, volunteered, “He must be hung like a horse.” 
As he recounted that story over the phone, she promised herself that she’d figure out next time whether he was circumcised. It was getting ridiculous. 
After they hung up, she sat on the futon couch with the gnawed arm and gazed up at the painting of them awaiting the car in Ixtapa, meant to be his Christmas present, which still hung on her wall (and still does). 
There is an immediacy to that painting, a touchability of feeling right on the surface of it. Up to that point in her artwork, it was probably the most expressive portraiture she’d ever produced, capturing that moment in their history like a butterfly in midair. It was the first painting she’d done in a couple of years, since the last one of her and Yigal the Persian-Jew, and she was so pleased with how this one turned out that she wondered how she could ever make art again, nothing she did would ever be that good ~~ though now when she looks at it, the image seems dated, and almost two-dimensional. 
The gratification she sought to supply through that painting gave rise to an unresolvable conflict between order and harmony ~~ a sort of rupture in the Divine insofar as it exists in nature, and, by extension, art. The perpetuality that she struggled to portray prevented her from contemplating the eternal and unchanging nature of the glory she wanted. Artwork built a staircase to God, but its banister guided her Soul’s return back down to earth, where their reunion blinded her because the beauty of being pushed away and pulled in at the same time was too much. 
The guys were not at the bar on Houston Street and First when she arrived, even though they were all supposed to meet there like 45 minutes ago. She should have known then, for sure. She really should have known back when he showed up late to their second date at Mitali. She really should have known, as she probably did, the very first time she saw him outside Atlas, and the drop in her stomach turned her on, and she knew it was the wrong feeling to be turned on by. 
But they were still relatively early on, and plus she believed that he was going to put a ring on her finger, a nice ring from Taxco (he kept saying), which is famous for its silver. 
A ring would make her like other women. 
Someone worth marrying. 
Someone who would not want to die. 
Aureliano stumbled through the door in between Bruno and Juan Carlos and immediately she did not recognize the expression on his face. He was not usually looking around vacantly and smiling; in fact, he rarely smiled unless he was making a joke or teasing her from the driver’s seat of the old tan Volvo station wagon, like on the way to Mystic when, in a precursor to the discussion about relationships getting fucked up, she’d asked him why men put up with women if they drove each other so crazy, and he’d formed his fingers into an upside down triangle to signify a vagina, while sort of steering with his elbow, and stuck out his tongue a little in between his teeth. 
The four of them stood together crushed in by the crowd at the bar. She wished that Aureliano would say something about her jean miniskirt and tights and boots, but still he had that empty look, and his eyes remained glassy. 
For the entire 15 minutes he stayed in the bathroom, she made excuse after excuse to Bruno and Juan Carlos. Aureliano had been working a lot recently. He was tired. She’d been sick a couple weeks ago and he’d been so kind to come over late and cook shrimp soup and hold her in bed and dab her body all over with a cotton ball soaked in rubbing alcohol ~~ which was apparently something people did in Mexico? ~~ and he really was a wonderful guy. 
At last he wobbled out, and she said she was going to take him home. Juan Carlos complimented her for being very nice and taking care of Aureliano. 
He kept the cab window down even though the wind was absolutely freezing and she begged him to roll it up. 
She took pictures of him so she would remember and because she was evil. 
Back home, he went straight for the bathroom again. She went in to check on him after a few minutes and there he was, slumped against the wall, right where he had stood as she descended to her knees after their trip to Agent Provocateur ~~ except now it was he going down, kneeling at the toilet to throw up. And through it all she took some more pictures. 
She doesn’t remember leaving the apartment to the laundry downstairs just yet ~~ wasn’t that trip later, when she was washing the sheets? ~~ but she must have, because she remembers returning and seeing his clothes strewn about on the bathroom floor and near the ladder to the sleeping loft. 
So up she went and now there he was in bed, and she held him, right where he’d held her and dabbed the cotton ball when she was sick. 
She zeroes in: that moment is the one you might choose, yeah, okay, not when he threw up a little into her hand, but right afterward, when he murmured, “I’m sorry, Audrey, I’m so sorry,” and she chose to believe him. 
  
Moment Thirteen: 
How He Loved Her Smell 
“I don’t want to be in a long-distance relationship,” she said. 
He told her that she was going to be okay, they were going to be okay, everything was going to be okay. He promised her. 
She longed so much to believe him, and, because believing him meant annihilating her expectations and oblivion comforted her, she did. 
The last night they spent together while he was still living in New York, she bundled up in the dark brown fleece that she had bought at Campmor in Paramus, New Jersey, which some guy Aureliano worked with up on the project up near Katonah had told him about. She cannot remember whether they went there specifically, or if they were coming back to the city from one of their drives and just happened to be near. 
She knows it was December, though, because she remembers trying on a windbreaker and saying, “Oh my God, I could wear this all winter,” whereas, if it had been January, she would have known that the fabric would not have been enough, even adding the fleece underneath. 
She hated shopping and almost never went. Mostly her clothes were accidents that she had happened upon on the street (like the red dress she’d worn in Ixtapa or the brown leather jacket that she’d picked up from the same sale), or hanging on some rack of reduced samples outside one of the boutiques on East 9th Street, a top for $10 or $15 or whatever, a really good deal that was meant to lure customers inside and which she snapped up as if competing for the item. 
She had so conditioned herself to scavenge that she couldn’t recall the last time she went to a real store and bought something new ~~ maybe the job interview suit she’d bought at Macy’s in San Francisco during law school, a vestige of the sadness and fear that overwhelmed her when she thought she was going to flunk out, or the patchwork of shirts and blazers and skirts that she 
unearthed in Filene’s Basement the following year for her internship with the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office, the same office where she went six months after she finished interning to report the assault, in which, you remember, her assailant cut off her breath with a headlock and said that she knew what he wanted and he would kill her if she didn’t give it to him ~~ or the stuff she bought when she went back to stock up for her first associate position at the law firm where she worked before she went solo, a three-man shop at which her annual salary was about equal to the size of a large law firm associate’s year-end bonus. 
But, here at Campmor, she was just thrilled because she’d finally be able to buy a winter wardrobe for herself and stay warm in different colors until May: she could fit into a large in the juniors’ section, and, at those prices, she could live in less mature shades. 
She heaped one article of clothing after another, including the brown fleece, onto Aureliano’s arms, as he trod after her through the aisles, each one of which yielded treasure. 
“His job is to carry everything,” she said to a woman who had looked up from browsing a rack in the back corner of the store. 
“Oh my,” the woman smiled, “he’s a keeper.” 
A wish to be transported to the almost blessed contemplation of things divine connected her to the time that was slipping away. Terrified that feelings would topple her from the precipice upon which she stood, enveloped in the warmth of him and the hot air streaming from the old tan Volvo station wagon’s heater on the way back to New York, she sought to devise an orderly path down the slopes she had climbed to escape from the winter of solitude that threatened her outside, on her own, without him. 
To beauty, love would draw the intellect, and lead a mind formerly un-beautiful to the same mind made beautiful. 
Love would make her better. 
Wouldn’t it? 
On their final night together in New York, they went to Life Café, on Avenue B and 10th Street, across the intersection from the bodega with the blondies. The restaurant was, you remember, the first place she’d gone after being released from the hospital following her almost accidental suicide attempt, back around this time of winter 13 years before. 
Tears hovered on the lower ridges of her eyes the entire time, as she thought of all the plates of nachos she’d devoured over at the bar here on Saturday or Sunday nights, after riding up to Nyack and home. 
(Years later, as I’ll remind you of shortly, she would assume her perch at the bar behind their booth where she was sitting across from Aureliano, and order a plate of nachos with Bernard, a Haitian thug who, in a coincidence that no longer surprised her because life was made up of them, had gone to high school in Nyack. Bernard would dismount his stool in order to stand inches away as she balanced on hers, look at her, shake his head in earnestness, and proclaim, “It doesn’t matter to me how you were born.”) 
Aureliano ordered a few drinks with dinner; she winced with the second hoping that there wouldn’t be a third. (Hey, Bernard would have a few drinks, too.) 
She gave up trying to smile. 
They’d already been through how he turned down a great job offer in New York to return to Pasadena without her. He’d invited her to come live with him, but she wasn’t admitted to practice in California yet, and, besides, she was only in the first year of her own five-year plan to relocate to Los Angeles, a subject she’d skirted because she was clinging to the possibility of a miracle... 
Maybe he’d accept that job here and they could move into an apartment together on the Upper West Side, at least for the next few years while she worked on migrating her law practice across the country. 
Maybe he would understand that the process was going to take time, she was in business for herself, she couldn’t simply up and transfer to another project like he always did. 
Maybe he really would come and visit twice a month like he promised. 
She kept hoping, even now. 
He told her, again, that everything was going to be okay, and he repeated himself all through dinner, which she had no appetite for. 
“I don’t want this,” she said, in disbelief that her one real shot to achieve a relationship was going to plummet, after she had launched and soared through the air, falling just short of outer space where she’d be safe from the gravitational forces that were yanking her back down to fate. 
The cold air hit their faces outside, and she thinks she may even have stepped into a pool of icy black slush in the gutter on the corner. 
As they walked across Avenue B, somewhere near 9th Street, he pressed his forehead upon her collarbone and inhaled. 
She was wearing the brown fleece from Campmor, which must have had her smell by now, whatever her smell was. 
What was that piece she read somewhere ~~ a blog or a newspaper feature or something ~~ with a quote from some girl who had told her boyfriend that she only stayed with him because of his natural aroma? 
I suspect that’s a moment you want, right there, in the middle of Avenue B, as she saw that, even though he was leaving her behind, he loved the way she smelled. 
  
Moment Fourteen: 
Her Scream for Him Across the World 
She had not wept with such sincerity ~~ at least not up to that point, though of course, later, in Manzanillo with Aureliano, she would ~~ since the last night they spent together, sitting on the pillows strewn about the balcony of her houseboat on the Nile, amidst one of those warm summer evenings in Cairo that she had come to love but would now associate with a downpour of sadness, the loss of a dream she had harbored and tended to and transformed into a garden in her heart. 
They first saw each other, you will recall, at Horriya, a bar in downtown Cairo near the American University, back when the campus huddled in a complex of buildings in a corner of Tahrir Square, the site of the revolutions, you remember, against President Hosni Mubarak, and, two years later, President Mohammed Morsi. She didn’t want to be alone at night anymore, and so she hopped in a taxi to Horriya, shuffled through the sawdust on the floor, and munched on chickpeas and fava beans while sipping a Stella, the Egyptian beer, working on her Arabic. 
She noticed him right away, of course, and she caught him staring back at her, just as he wanted her to. It was a good year for him, before the heroin took his beauty away; he looked like he had stepped out of her fantasies, only to invite her right back into them. 
In between glances he talked to his friend, or whomever it was that he had come with. She probably checked them both out, she was like that back then. 
Mohammed’s forehead sloped down into definite but soft eyebrows atop a pair of black-rimmed glasses that perched across his quietly majestic nose. The cheekbones and jawline throning his eye sockets sculpted the air down into a pair of lips that gleamed plush with a touch of moisture at the center, and their mauve corners curved upward into the ever slightest of smiles. His black hair was recently cut, probably on a weekly basis she imagined, tapering from the back 
of his skull in a curve to his neck. The skin of his face shone a golden olive, and, since he was several years beyond her ripe age of 23, but still less than the older-looking man that the drugs would turn him into the following year, he was luminescent, even in the cheap florescent lighting overhead. 
He was there the following night. 
She does not remember whether he was already sitting inside when she got there, or if he came in after; she believes it was the latter; it would have made more sense for him to sit down next to her, as he must have, and start talking. 
He went home with her that second night to the nondescript flat in a posh part of town where she lived before the houseboat. The next morning, he wrote his phone number for her in old-style Arabic numerals ~~ which she asked him to use rather than Western versions (a special request on behalf of the memory she was making) ~~ and she kept that scrap of paper in her wallet for years, although she never needed to, because she remembered what he wrote as soon as she saw it and remembers it still. 
“I pushed to know you,” he would explain later, in English, which she would remember because “push,” even if a curious word choice, was exactly what he did. 
Over the next four months, they communicated in a mixture of Arabic and English, depending on how drunk or stoned either one of them was and which language suited the purpose. English was for communication, Arabic for nonsense and sweet everythings. 
One time he threw the pot down under a floorboard of the houseboat balcony, and he showed it to her the next day, sitting there at the bottom of a buoy. 
“Why did you do that?” she asked, gazing down into the shadows. 
“I don’t know,” he said. “I don’t know.” 
It’s probably there now, all these years later. 
If love for a man is the desire for beauty itself, and the beauty of the human body ~~ especially one that tasted of odorless sweat, as his did ~~ consists in a certain harmony; and if that harmony is a temperance of conflicting emotions, it follows that love seeks only what is moderate, and decorous ~~ and, if all that fluff is so, it was not love she felt for Mohammed, but the force of love that makes love love. 
Amongst all the pleasures and sensations that overflowed from them, night after night, each one filling with an impetuosity and irrationality that jarred her mind and unbalanced her, and him too, and as the electricity welling up tipped further toward a craving to be submerged together in their desires ~~ for her it was to touch his face and for him it was to lick her feet ~~ their love grew to hate any moderation, electing instead to find beauty in its opposite. 
The mad lasciviousness that dragged them down into such intemperance and disharmony, attracting them to each other’s underbellies, devolved into a harbinger of the depths to which she would sink into sex addiction a few months later, and he into drugs. In the meantime, though, they pulled each other toward ugliness like gravity, and the brightness of the fire there singed them down to the core, which made everything seem all the more beautiful in savagery. 
After she returned to the States, she called him periodically, leaving perhaps four or five weeks in between conversations. Usually his mother picked up, never seeming even remotely flummoxed to be answering the phone at 4:00 or 5:00 in the morning, the only time of day or night that he would likely be home and awake. 
She went back the following summer, and, for a second there, life was heaven. I want to confess: she believed more than anything that she had stumbled upon the rest of her life ~~ until a week later when he said that he needed to tell her something and showed her some bullshit identification card with another name and said all this stuff that didn’t make sense. She knew not to believe any of it anymore, and, besides, he’d always be Mohammed to her, no matter how he thrashed against the memories they shared. 
A few days later came that night-long Goodbye on the houseboat balcony, you remember the one, as she sobbed and sobbed, tears leaping from her eyes. And he cried too, for he knew that he had mangled it all. 
He was probably high. 
Fucking heroin. 
He had been the love of her life. 
The years passed and she got in touch with him every six months or so. She wanted to hear his voice, and for him to hear hers. 
Once she even called from a hotel in Zamalek, the posh foreign embassy district, across the river from the houseboat, at the conclusion of a fellowship after law school. 
“You were in Cairo for five months and you didn’t phone me until now?” 
“I’m sorry.” 
She should regret refusing to see him that night because of what happened five years later… 
…where we are in the story of Audrey and Aureliano. 
It’s May now, three months after he has left New York, and, even though he’d promised to visit her twice a month to ease the long distance thing, he hasn’t come once yet. 
She is alone in her apartment, convulsing with sobs on the futon couch with the gnawed arm. 
Because now, for the first time since she and Mohammed met, she cannot get ahold of him. 
That phone number she committed to memory from the first instant so many years ago doesn’t work anymore. The line is dead. 
She sobs and sobs, screaming for him all the way across the world ~~ she screams so loudly and for so long that her upstairs neighbor from two floors above knocks on the door to make sure she’s okay, and she bleats, “Yes,” but she isn’t, the neighbor knows she isn’t and so does she, nor 
will she be okay, not ever again, something will always be missing now, stuck down at the bottom of a buoy in the shadows, where it will stay, untouched and beyond reach, forever. 
You might choose that moment because it was then that she first understood that she could love truly, and, in her mind, a life with Aureliano remained possible.  
Moment Fifteen: 
“It’s Not That Bad” 
“Tomorrow’s the big day, baby,” he said, a couple weeks later, and she tingled on the other end of the phone connection. 
Over the next few revolutions of the earth around the sun, whenever they were on again, she would wish that she had just fucking accepted the invitation to stay at his house in Pasadena rather than try to puppeteer the evening with a hotel downtown. Spending the night at his place had been the original plan, when she first scheduled the interview a month before. But then his mom had fallen ill and moved from her second-floor bedroom over in Hancock Park to his living room, which was on the ground floor. 
“Why doesn’t she just stay in the living room of her own house?” 
Audrey crumpled inside as the words left her mouth, and she pasted over her shame by admitting she was nervous that meeting his mother would disrupt her concentration for the interview. 
How much she wanted that job amounted to little in comparison to how much she wanted to be wanted for it. 
She tried on a couple outfits the morning of the interview, and, when she showed him the black suit she’d gotten in law school, fitted over her favorite bright pink shirt punctuated with a white collar and white cuffs, he looked at her from his recline on the bed, and said, “That’s it.” 
Not half an hour later, one of the interviewers asked about the partner in Pasadena she’d mentioned in her cover letter. She painted a smile and a nod over the last three weeks prior to submitting her application, in which she had alternated between removing that sentence each time they “broke up” because he wasn’t coming to New York to visit ever, and putting it back when they spoke again and he placated her. 
She still believed that one day they would go to Taxco together. One day he would formalize their engagement with a silver ring and turn her into someone special. 
Maybe she shouldn’t have been so bratty with him, always demanding and rigid. Maybe she should have let him love her in his own way, not subject him to amorphous, capricious standards that he could never satisfy!! 
The old tan Volvo station wagon pulled out of the hotel garage after she had completed her interview around the corner, and they turned onto a series of streets that she drives daily now that she has moved to LA. Back then these long blocks still seemed new, so full of possibility and uncertainty, welcoming and open, yet somehow better than she was, more than she deserved. 
They headed over toward the 5 ~~ she isn’t sure which route they took, but probably Hill Street over to the 110, since that’s the route he directed her to years later when she happened to be in Chinatown during a phone conversation and asked, and she was nasty to him and lamented it later because he was right, it was the quickest route ~~ and then likely through the tunnels near Dodger Stadium that he once told her had been used for a scene in Rebel Without a Cause, which she never bothered to verify. 
Soon enough they were heading north, down the grapevine to Bakersfield and further, all the way to her hometown in the Central Valley. 
It had been a big day: she’d flown to Los Angeles and he’d actually picked her up as promised, he’d chosen a hotel that was a three-minute walk from her job interview, and he’d helped her pick out what to wear and all that. Meanwhile they’d made love and slept together and held each other and not fought and everything seemed like before. 
And now they were together in the car again, propelling time over the wrinkles between them, polishing away the layers of discontent and revealing the hope they shared that things would get better. 
You see the beauty of the Body, she told herself, thinking of how sex with him in Los Angeles before a job interview had tenderized her into the person she might become. 
Do you wish to see also the beauty of the Soul? Then subtract the weight of the matter itself from the bodily form, the one that tethers you to him ~~ it was her body, he’d later tell her, that keeps him coming back for her ~~ and leave the rest, and soar. 
Do you wish also to see the beauty of the Angelic Mind? Then take away now, please, not only the limits of place, but also the sequence of time, while keeping the composition of physicality in your relation to each other. 
Do you wish finally to see the beauty of God? Then take away, in addition to everything that came before, that composite of forms in which you delight and squirm, the interplay of the two of you together, ensnared in all your dreams and interpretations that do not exist. 
And what will I have left after subtracting all these qualities? 
Do you think that beauty is anything else but light? 
The sun in California, even through the bad air of the Central Valley, shone so bright. For the whole drive, she wore the pair of sunglasses with polarized lenses that she’d found in a Japanese second-hand designer clothing store in the East Village ~~ and he wore those same ones she’d tried on in Ixtapa three years prior. 
The night he’d thrown up in her bed, she’d called her mom and cried a little into the phone, speaking quietly from the bathroom, where she crouched on the ground, in the same spot where he’d slumped against the wall an hour earlier, and where she’d knelt before him and undone his pants a couple months before. 
“Audrey, do not stay with him,” her mom warned. “When he wakes up, just let him go, and don’t ever talk to him again.” 
“But I’ll be alone.” 
She followed her mom’s instructions for a few days. Then he texted her from a German beer hall in the neighborhood, minutes away from where she lived. 
I miss you, said his text, and those three words crumbled her. 
Now, a year-and-a-half later, here they were in her mom’s living room, with its high ceilings and walls of creamy white. Her mom sat on the edge of the couch for the entire conversation, except when Aureliano left to go to the bathroom, at which point she leapt into the air and pointed in the direction he’d gone and mouthed: “YES YES YES.” 
Audrey would bring up those YESes for the next several years, whenever her mom said to just stay away from him. 
“That was before I knew,” her mom would say. 
“Oh bullshit,” she’d respond. “You knew about the night he threw up in my bed when I called you three months prior.” 
Later that evening, at her father’s, she got choked up. 
The ridiculously enormous house he’d moved into with his new wife was right behind where Lindsay Carpenter used to live. (Lindsay is a girl Audrey had had a crush on and walked the school halls looking for her entire sophomore year. At their 20th high school reunion, Lindsay would remind Audrey that Audrey had kissed her ~~ “I kissed you?” “Three times!!” “Really?” “Oh my God.”) 
Most of it was the irony of how much she would have wanted to live behind Lindsay during high school and now she did, all this river of time later, when there was no Lindsay anymore, and look what her father had come to. The new wife had walked out on him ~~ literally just walked out of the house ~~ as he was recuperating from a neck operation and his corrupt partners had fired him for ~~ they even said so ~~ being disabled. 
Some of the backyard furniture was overturned, there were spider webs in the guest room, and a layer of dust lay over the dining room table and every piece of furniture in the living room, which felt unused. 
“It doesn’t seem that bad,” Aureliano said to her, as she cried a little in the car on the way to their hotel. “I don’t see why you’re so upset.” 
“Then why don’t you want to stay there?” 
On the way back to LA, they drove over to the ocean to take Highway 1 all the way down. They took a picture outside a restaurant made of windows in Big Sur. She was wearing one of the zip-up fleeces she’d gotten from Campmor in the junior’s section, and she tried to smile and look happy. The picture, however, captured the strain in between them. 
“It’s not that bad,” he said, glancing at her phone as he steered. “I don’t see what you’re talking about.” 
It was then that you may wish to choose, the moment when she wanted to let her premonitions slide, as they continued on, trapped in the fog of the coast that, with just one gust of wind, could have cleared. 
 
  
Moment Sixteen: 
Just for a Second, She Thought 
She’d asked Half-bald Drew to marry her, too ~~ well, not so much asked as suggested, really ~~ and not just once but whenever she had the chance. And then, at a certain point, there was the letter. 
They met on the first group bike ride she ever took, to City Island, with a bunch of people she never saw again except for him. He noticed that his back wheel had flatted after they got there and the group were milling around in front of some order-at-the-window lobster joint or other. He wore a headband that day, so she’d just figured he was gay. But then he frowned at the wheel, unscrewed it from the frame, sat down on the curb and ripped the tire off to inspect the tube ~~ all in one gesture ~~ and she perceived that he was not only straight, but single. 
He sat with his feet in the gutter, his hands and thighs streaked with grease from the chain, kneading the tire back onto the wheel with all ten grubby, nail-chewed fingers. He was sweaty, and also speckled with the dirt of the city, plus some from the freeway, which they’d somehow ended up on for a New York minute ~~ and she wanted to kiss and lick his body all over. 
The second time she saw him was out at his parents’ house in Montauk. By then she had purchased a bona fide road bike, not the piece of shit from K-Mart that she’d been riding around because it was the cheapest set of new wheels she could find. And also she’d been up to Nyack and back once or twice now already, so the 40-mile jaunt they went on that afternoon along the Atlantic Ocean was nothing. The energy she had on that ride ~~ she sang along to her iPod and felt like she could spread her arms and lift up off the world!! 
There were two other people there that day, including a girl who was competing for Drew, but Audrey was okay with the inevitability of losing because he’d invited her out to participate in 
this get-together, and he was a man ~~ and that development, whatever else happened, was incredible. 
The fourth person, a guy she never saw again, was so unprepared for the length of ride they’d done that, when he emerged from the bathroom back at the parents’ house, Drew said, “Are you okay? You look like you’re about to pass out.” 
She remembers because, as Drew spoke, she was standing nearby at the kitchen counter, and he was so big and tall next to her that she closed her eyes for a second, just to feel the sensation of being next to him that she knew she could survive from for months. 
At first she offered to take the train back to Manhattan, and she totally would have, especially since it seemed like the other girl had sunk her claws into him. 
But she let him insist, and then he managed to get all three of their bikes into his Subaru. (A headband and a Subaru, what was up with this guy?) 
Audrey did climb into the back, though, so the other girl could have the front. 
Before the drive home, they parked out at that famous lighthouse on the edge of the world for a few minutes, to get a final few breaths of ocean air. “The Story” by Brandi Carlile came on the radio and became, for Audrey, their song. 
The other girl wanted to be dropped off near her own parents’ house deep in Long Island, forlorn in some random parking lot that could have been any other. 
And so the next thing Audrey knew, she and Drew were driving toward Manhattan, just the two of them, as the sun was setting behind the cityscape and lighting up the sky with orange and violet. She wished the ride would last forever, and, in her heart ~~ where she could imagine what might have happened if he liked her back ~~ it would. 
The beauty of their bodies, at the heart of their prime, was a visible light, whereas the beauty of their souls, having yet to emerge, was an invisible one; and the light they formed together, having encountered each other on this earth Platonically, was truth. 
Grant, O God, she wished, that my soul may be beautiful to him and that those things which pertain to my body may not impair the beauty of my spirit. 
Her moral virtues, evident in her restraint, were apparent, whereas her intellectual virtues, the world inside that she endeavored to show in slivers so as not to overwhelm, were more esoteric. 
She longed for him to consider these characteristics as her first beauty, followed by the nobility she was capable of achieving, if only she were loved. 
Embedded in their interactions was the perfection to which they might attain only in unison with another. The universe charged them with loving the shared characteristic of their souls, knowing that whatever lay in each was, during that car ride back to the City, enveloped in the orange and violet majesty of the sunset, a multitude they brought to fruition in togetherness. 
She knew it was wrong to invest such qualities in him, and that she should better discern what rose from her alone ~~ yet there was something about the feeling she had that made her want to hold on. 
Being with him signified the Wisdom from whose truth all truths sprang ~~ at least, for the next few minutes they were in that Subaru. 
She lost count of how many bike rides they took together over the years. They became friends, and he always remained very tolerant of her, even when she professed her affection for him and tried to ruin the friendship. 
Around the same time they met, you see, he had started dating yet another girl and was already falling for her. Audrey grew disappointed, however, since Drew made time for her even though he was seeing someone else, she didn’t mind. She contented herself with their rides to Nyack and an occasional dinner. Still, whenever they hugged after seeing each other, she closed her eyes like in Montauk and imagined what it would be like if she didn’t have to let go. 
She met Aureliano not too long afterward, which meant that her love affair with him, and Drew’s with his girlfriend’s, paralleled one another in time, and also kinda in space, a continuum in which each couple was tumbling into love on different blocks of the same city ~~ she and Aureliano in the East Village, and Drew and his girlfriend across the East River over in Williamsburg. Each morning on her daily jog, she saw the big glass apartment building where Drew’s condo was ~~ she’d somehow managed to stop by and say Hi the very day he moved in, and ended up shaving the sides and back of his head for him ~~ and each time she promised herself to respond with a smile. 
Drew’s girlfriend left New York around the same time Aureliano departed. 
The two of them responded to their respective long-distance relationships with ever more bike rides and dinners. She felt so lucky to know him. 
One Saturday night he took her to Spa Castle out in Queens, and there, in a sauna room with no one else around, he reached out and massaged her feet. It was as if he couldn’t help himself, and she dared not imagine what the gesture could mean. 
Because she got lazy this way, her destructiveness crept in and got the better of her. She started dreaming that maybe their respective significant others had left so that they could be together. 
And then, succumbing to fate on a plane ride back from a trip to Tampa for work, she finally wrote him the letter that poured out every drop of her heart. 
The disclosure precipitated a several-months hiatus in their friendship, which she imposed of her own volition ~~ until one day she was riding home from Nyack and saw him coming in the other direction, and she realized that their bond was strong enough to withstand her emotional spasms, if only she did a better job hiding them. 
Eventually they met at the Russian & Turkish Baths, and, one day, shortly thereafter, they had dinner. 
The months rolled into years, dovetailing their compassion for one another ever closer. 
But the moment you are thinking of happened much earlier, during the summer that we have reached in the story of Aureliano, when Audrey and Half-bald Drew have just taken an evening ride in the middle of the week, and now they find themselves at the base of the Williamsburg Bridge. Drew bends down to hug her Goodbye and then just sort of stands there, and the sky is orange and violet like on that first car ride back from Montauk, and she thinks, just for a second, that their lips are going to meet. 
  
Moment Seventeen: 
He Could Still Turn Around 
Her second trip to visit him in Mexico started off with a familiarity that lulled her into complacency despite herself. There, just before the baggage claim area, was the bathroom with the concrete sink where she had freshened up last time, and where she did so now, too, changing into the jean miniskirt that she had worn that frigid night the previous January when he had thrown up in her bed. 
He kissed her in the car ~~ he’d driven his black Mercedes sedan down from Pasadena ~~ and she felt herself withdraw from his hunger, ever so slightly, in fear. She held back from voicing her mind, which clanged with all the times he was supposed to come visit her in New York over the last few months; this trip was supposed to erase all that noise, and make the relationship better. 
Besides, she was being picked up at the airport in Mexico City by a man who had said he loved her. When would she ever be satisfied with enough? 
The bed in his apartment was too small. They squished in and she didn’t sleep well. 
The next morning, after freshly squeezed juice from a shop around the corner, they went to the local baths that he had been coming to since he was a teenager, and then they set off for a park he wanted to take her to, outside the city. She had yet to learn that they had about 24 hours before she came apart and everything imploded along with her, and she was so happy to be with him, making up for all the time they had lost apart. 
(She wants to call him now, all these years later, and ask him the name of the park so she can look it up and read about it. But, as with the painting/Juan Carlos thing, she knows that, if she does, he might yell at her and insult her for not remembering ~~ she doesn’t pay attention, ever, 
she never has, he has shared all these special places in his home country with her, all of his life, and she is useless, she doesn’t remember anything. 
It’s not that she doesn’t remember, she might try to say, she has a very clear memory of many things they’ve done together, she just can’t remember the name of each individual place, she can see them in her mind, she took pictures and she wrote a lot of their memories down in her journal ~~ she just didn’t always note all the names. 
At which point he would unleash a stream of vitriol, and for many years she would push back, but then, after she reaches the point where she can predict the unpredictability of these episodes, she simply listens and shakes her head, as she hardens against the world ever further.) 
With the entire park almost to themselves, they took a paddle boat out into the center of the light blue lake there, and then shot across zip lines over the water ~~ he was so nervous that he trembled, strapped in, she has pictures ~~ and on the way back to the car they paused to gaze out over a valley of rolling lands and fincas and horses, shimmering. 
That afternoon he took her to a pueblo where she bought a silver ring with three blue stone gems ~~ which she wears virtually every day, thinking of him whenever she puts it on ~~ and then they ate at a restaurant on top of a hill. 
It started before dinner with a shot of tequila, followed by a couple beers with their food, followed by a shot of tequila afterward. 
“Why don’t we walk around a bit before getting in the car?” 
He complied for a minute, but then he got mad because he saw what she was doing, trying to buy a few more minutes in between the drinks he’d consumed and their drive to Mexico City. So he threatened to leave her there, in that pueblo on the hill, to find her way back on her own. 
She gritted her teeth and buckled herself in. As he sped down the mountain roads way over the speed limit, she screamed out in fright, wishing inside that they would crash and she would die. 
There is but one truth of the pure life that she so wanted to live, a course which, through the exercise of Justice, Courage and Temperance ~~ the lofty ideals that she kept her eyes on ~~ she hoped might lead to happiness. Esteem these qualities, she wanted to urge him, and you will not only understand me, you will also appreciate the beautiful light of the soul that I so desperately want to show you. 
Know also, she longed to explain to him, that we can rise above these strictures to the clarity of wisdom, knowledge and prudence, which I want you to understand are the virtues I hold in the highest regard, a moral life ~~ that’s all I wish to live. 
Still, however varied these doctrines may be, remember that there is but one single light of truth that guides me, through which the world I see is beautiful. 
Can you not love the beauty of the soul as I do, or at least appreciate how I appreciate it, even if we are different? 
Can we not agree that the one truth to which we both aspire, even if we disagree on its origins, is one and ought to rise from one, the union of our love? And can we not also agree that there must be one wisdom above our souls, however high they dance, which remains undivided, the one Wisdom from whose single truth the multiform truths of our separate perceptions spring? 
She ended up in the street with her suitcase in the middle of the night on the second trip. 
Months of barrenness passed, and, now, it is her third. 
And, for the third time, she stops in the little restroom with the concrete sink just before the baggage claim to make herself pretty again. This time she dabs on some kohl ~~ a new discovery of hers ~~ to darken her eyes in a way that she believes is sexy. 
Outside she tries to smile, maybe a little seductively, and he tells her that she looks tired… 
His new apartment had wood floors. Their hollowness made everything seem bigger, more resounding, hard. 
They had sex in another bed that was too small ~~ even though he’d promised her, when she’d asked, that he now had a bigger bed; it’s just that she wasn’t used to sleeping with another person and got no rest when crammed in, which meant agitation from lack of sleep, she didn’t do well on too little sleep ~~ and her heart fell when she saw it, and probably she said something. 
He took her to another baths, closer to the city center. (She asked about the ones they went to before, but he said they had closed. She wasn’t surprised because they seemed from another era, so sparse, and no one was there.) They made love in a private room. 
That night things were still off a little, and she could tell that the end of the 24 hours they were allotted was going to come soon. 
He told her about a mountain nearby that he had walked up and she said she wanted to go. She did not tell him that the real reason was that she wanted exercise in order to maintain her weight, because they always did so much driving and eating down here in Mexico, and she was going to bottle up and explode. 
She sped ahead on the climb, hoping to teach him some sort of lesson. The view from the top was breathtaking and transported her. But she felt so lonely and she wanted someone to appreciate the experience with. So she went down the path and back up again until she found him, and tried to hold his hand. 
It was too late. 
At the bottom of the mountain an hour later, he slipped into a bar that she didn’t even realize was a bar, until she looked inside and saw a few sad figures wavering on their feet in the shadows. 
She pretended like it hadn’t happened, and they made their way through the mishmash of booths in the town market on the way to the car. He purchased a bag of grasshoppers, which she tasted and said she liked, trying to smile. 
They were high up in elevation and the proximity to the sun made everything brighter. 
(She can’t remember the name of the mountain, and, once again, she can’t call or text him to ask for the reasons you already know, and he won’t tell her anyway ~~ unless it happens to be one of those times when he’ll remind her, touching the words with his teeth like a song, and they’ll reminisce.) 
They walked into the apartment in Mexico City and he went straight to the liquor cabinet. She sat on the couch, trying again to smooth over her misbehavior with pleasantness. 
He told her to sleep on the wood floor of the living room that night, and only let her into the little bed when she begged. But her sobs disturbed him and so he made her go back to the floor. 
And then it was the liquor cabinet again, and once more she was out on the street with her suitcase, searching around for a hotel, just like before. 
He e-mailed her the following morning, and they Skyped, and a quarter hour later he took her to the airport. And that’s the moment you could choose, on that short drive, when she thought: maybe, just maybe, he will say he’s sorry and turn around and we’ll go back and start all over again and I’ll be okay in the little bed and I won’t make any trouble, I promise, I’ll stay for two weeks like we planned, and I’ll fix myself and behave and we’ll enjoy Mexico together. 
  
Moment Eighteen: 
Until the Day He Died 
The tree climbing started after what happened with Mr. Bagsby. 
On the first day of third grade, she wished that she had not transferred over from the old school, where the Corvettes and images from 2001: A Space Odyssey and flies were, to this new one for the “gifted and talented” kids ~~ though she would, in time, go on to wonder how she would have turned out if only she had transferred the year prior, along with her schoolmates who began attending as second graders. 
She felt so uncomfortable that first day because there was a discussion ~~ teachers at this new school encouraged discussion, and, when the possibility of one arose, they would simply scrap their lesson plans, stand up, maybe lean back half-sitting on their desks, and engage everyone. 
During this particular conversation on this particular day, so many of the other kids kept using the phrase “vice versa.” Audrey longed to participate and promised herself that she would learn all the words she needed to. 
It was then that she began in earnest. First there was The Wizard of Oz series, beginning with the initial 14 books by L. Frank Baum and then more by Ruth Plumy Thomson (in which she was Dorothy being whisked off to a faraway land), and then it was Anne of Green Gables (where she was feisty red-headed Anne out on a farm in the countryside and in love with handsome young Gilbert), and then she was Meg Murry in Madeline L’Engle’s Time Quintet series (“tesseracting” from earth to other parts of the universe by wrinkling time). Anything, anything to get away. 
The first “treehouse” was in the plum tree in the front yard. It consisted of a chair that she’d managed to drag up to a triple fork in the branches, spread out like the palm of a hand holding her in a magic throne that carried her away as she sat and read, and read. 
Eventually she laid a bed of foam over the chair arms, so that she could recline. She added an umbrella to shield away the sun, and she covered the whole construction with a blanket tucked in at the corners. 
It was very hot in summer, but she would still stay cocooned up there in the air among the deep purple leaves all day, ensconced in the journeys she took on the pages in front of her, until time for gymnastics practice came at 4:00 in the afternoon. 
Over the next few years, additional “rooms” would be added, in one tree following the other. After another few levels appeared in the plum tree, where she placed pillows and an additional small chair in various spots, it was certain trees in the backyard, like the apricot tree in the corner near the alley, and the mulberry tree in the middle of the back lawn, next to the stone path from the patio to the rear gate. 
She preferred the front because it was up above the earth, but closer to people, somehow; it was exposed yet hidden in the open, exactly as she wanted to be. 
The mulberry tree in the back, on the other hand, was reserved mostly for games with her younger brother and Colin, who was closer to her age but played with her brother because they both liked boy things. And there she sat cross-legged ~~ as they hunted a series of bison and antelope and other animals she imagined for them to find ~~ braiding thin yarn bracelets to contribute to the stockpile that she and Dinah would sell. 
In order to distinguish among the beauty of her experiences, she juxtaposed their representations, not by understanding them as objects for cognition, but instead by imagination, in relation to herself and her feeling of pleasure or pain. (Selfish though her approach may be, it is the only one she has ever known, and the only way she knows she can know anything.) 
Each juxtaposition might have been objective, through its reference to sensation, yet nothing in her amounted to such a signification, other than feelings affected by the representations. 
In order to apprehend a regular, purposeful force to her cognition, she needed to engage in intellectualism. She wanted so much to understand her emotions and their origins. 
Her understanding of life fell under this rubric, as did her corresponding impressions. The universe of imaginings that sprouted up gave rise to a faculty of judgment, but only insofar as she could discern a comparison between representations of what lay within. 
There were her feelings, and there were her imitations of them. 
The former were real, empirical, almost tangible, and the latter formed the basis of judgment, by which she exercised choice. With this frame of reference, each decision comprised a birth from the interplay among the human desire to learn about aesthetical perfection in the books she read, the bracelets she braided and the reason why (to get closer to Dinah), and the gymnastics routines she practiced over and over and over, after taping up her bloody hands. 
She had developed a crush on Dinah, an angular girl with a crooked nose and feet and hands one size too big, in the fourth grade, when they sat in the same table group at the back of the room. Dinah had been on the girls’ team for two or three years already, and, now that a boys’ team was organized, they were at gymnastics together at least three evenings per week. 
Audrey learned the word “transsexual” that year, out on the playground with a group that included her deaf sign language practice buddy Brendan and some other kids. No wonder she so longed to cycle in with the girls’ team for uneven parallel bars and beam, rather than muddle through routines on rings and pommel horse. 
Unfortunately, things were different back then, and so she contented herself ~~ for the time being, and up through jr. high when it became clear that she could no longer compete with the boys by compensating for her lack of strength with momentum ~~ with high bar dismounts and floor tumbling passes into the “pit,” where she could fling herself into double backs and layouts with double or even triple full twists, flying through the air and into the sea of foam scraps. 
Meanwhile, she asked Dinah to “go with” her pretty much daily, and Dinah always said No. They still passed dozens of notes back and forth to each other every hour, however, just as they continued to collaborate on the thin yarn braided bracelets that they sold for between 25 cents and a dollar, depending on the number of threads and the complexity of the diagonal or diamond designs. 
Out of all the days and months in elementary school, she might have chosen the moment in the fifth grade when Dinah finally said Yes, they could go together, albeit with certain conditions, for example that they tell no one. Or she might have chosen that final dance they did. 
It happened this way. For the last half-dozen years, Mrs. Starr’s class had gotten to go to Yosemite for a class trip ~~ it wasn’t fair, there was supposed to be a lottery and classes from all over the state were eligible, but the reality is that Mrs. Starr prepared her class for Yosemite like no one else did, and so her kids kept getting invited. 
Everyone spent several months studying the characters from history that they were assigned to play the role of once they got to the Park, and of course assembling costumes, and learning how to square dance. 
Audrey reminded Mrs. Starr that she and Dinah should be dance partners because they were both gymnasts, and reminded her again, until finally she prevailed. 
You might pick that night in the barn up in Yosemite, where, at long last, they had a real fiddler making music, and she and Dinah got to hold hands and do a heel-and-a-toe and a heel-and-a-toe and a slide-slide-slide all around the floorboards. 
Or you might pick the ride home the next day, as they communicated in sign language out the car windows, whenever the train of vehicles heading down the mountains slowed on the hairpin turns. 
But instead I think you might end up focusing in on another moment, one afternoon a year or two later, perhaps over the summer in between elementary school and jr. high (when she met 
Exclamation! Jessica and Future Best Friend Jordan and Non-gangbanger Gerardo and all of those experiences happened), as she was showing her grandfather the model Rolls Royces that she collected, which sat on the desk in her bedroom among the Oz and Green Gables and Wrinkle in Time series books, along with The Lord of the Rings, which would keep her up all night on a family trip to Switzerland. 
She began mowing his lawn after her grandmother died. He picked her up Sunday afternoons in the old grey Volvo sedan that would one day be hers, and she appreciated the five dollars she made each time, and not just because she could save it to buy more books and oil paints ~~ “Can’t you practice with regular paints?” her father had asked. “It’s not the same,” she would say, “and I need real canvases, too.” ~~ but, rather, because she knew how much it meant for him to be able to pay her. 
This afternoon he stood there reading the thoughts and notes for stories that she wrote in cursive and pinned to the wall above the desk. But what she did not know until later, after her father had gone through her grandfather’s effects, is that he copied one of them down ~~ “Something is not appreciated until it ceases to be.” ~~ and carried it in his wallet until he died. 
Now, if only she had appreciated what she shared with Aureliano before what happened with Bernard the Haitian thug from the Baths…  
Moment Nineteen: 
An Instant She Was So Alive 
“I’m not high-maintenance,” she said, which, as you know, was really not true. 
She had noticed him, of course ~~ how could she not? He had an extraordinary body, lean and of perhaps among the most chiseled musculatures she’d ever seen, certainly one that distinguished itself here at the Baths, which overflowed with office-bound slaves to money and ambition, and unathletic Hasidim or aging Russian men whose bellies preceded their physical presence as if making way for them in space. 
Bernard the Haitian thug worked in construction along with another regular, Marcus, a tall and tattooed faux jerk whose gait said he was slightly above it all, even if he always pretended (and turned out) to be very nice. The undertones of this association, which Audrey had managed to extract in bits and pieces from Marcus over the course of several weeks, kept her from angling for Bernard. 
Nevertheless, they contrived to look at each other often. And then one time he inadvertently knocked over her water bottle as she was stretching on a plank of rotted wood on the floor in the Russian Room, a low-lit dungeon with the built-in furnace that she imagined never would have passed city inspections if it had not been grandfathered in from a century ago. 
“I’m sorry,” he apologized, which is when she made the comment about not being high-maintenance. 
Her response was not completely untrue, either. She was high-maintenance overall, for sure, but not about little things like this incident ~~ and especially not when someone so attractive was to blame, or not really blame, even, since it was an accident. Other guys had knocked over her water bottle over the years, and it always agitated her to have to pick it up, along with the 
hand towel that she folded on top to keep it dry. She was almost grateful when Bernard did it; he was so fucking hot. 
They spoke for the first time ~~ we’re not counting that initial brief exchange ~~ one or two visits later. He was heading out of the showers, and she, emerging from the murky cold plunge pool toward the Russian Room, nearly bumped into him. 
“Would you like to have dinner sometime?” he blurted out, hedging, either before or after the invitation, that she probably already had a boyfriend. 
Several months had elapsed since the most recent debacle in Mexico with Aureliano; and he had yet to show up in New York. 
“I’d love to,” she said, gleaming. 
Bernard chose an Italian place on First Avenue between 1st and 2nd, but he neglected to make a reservation, and the bar teemed with hordes of 20-somethings one-upping each other at the top of their lungs. Glossing over the blunder, she proposed an Indian restaurant a few blocks north, around the corner from Mitali East.  
He ordered a cocktail, and then another. At one point he spoke to the couple at the adjacent table and kept the conversation going several sentences too long. 
She is not sure when he told her that he was an ex-felon ~~ it may have been that first date, or later on ~~ but, whenever it was, she thought she would be a hypocrite if she didn’t accept him for who he was trying and working so hard to be ~~ she represented people with pasts like his, after all, and more so she had a past herself, and asked others to imagine beyond it, too. 
All of which is why, at Life Café a couple weeks later, just feet from the booth where she’d sat with Aureliano, when Bernard pushed aside his plate of fried chicken and stood up from his bar stool and said that how she was born didn’t matter, she softened up to him for good. 
It is true that she judged him based on reasons that she could marshal against going to bed together. She was torn between, on the one hand, her physical desire for him coupled with the intellectual desire to move on from Aureliano, and, on the other hand, the sanctity of love. 
Since her judgment of Bernard, which she would have described, if pressed, as pleasant, comprised an interest in what might happen between them, sensation excited a lust for more encounters, of the kind she had already had, skating on the surface, yet deeper. 
Consequently, her satisfaction presupposed not only the mere judgment she was exercising, but also the relation of its existence to her state of being. 
So he was not merely pleasant; his presence promised to gratify her. 
She gave this flourish no assent, but still her inclinations were aroused, and, when it came to what was most exciting about him, she resorted to an absence of judgment upon anything other than his character ~~ for she had come to learn that enjoyment would fain dispense with judgment altogether. 
He respected her desire to move slowly, and, over the next couple weeks, they got to know each other. 
She ran into him at the Baths from time to time. One evening in particular her heart skipped when she saw him standing in the doorway beneath the rain: she walked up to him and stood very close, as if to kiss him, whereupon he extended his enormous veined hands which, cupped together, appeared to have been molded by genetics from a Rodin sculpture. 
Those glorious hands unfolded, and there, in his palms, wrapped with a little cone of brown wax paper, and glistening in the water that fell in droplets from the sky, was a pink rosebud that had just begun to blossom. 
Another time she encountered him a few buildings away, swaggering down the street in the masculine fashion he cobbled together, that ever-so-sinister but heartwarming glint sparkling in 
his eye. They met in space, and he withdrew an earbud from his ear and placed it in hers, as an aria from Puccini’s Madam Butterfly lit up her face. 
He invited her to the restaurant he was working on renovating, and also the Pilates studio, and one night he took her to the apartment where he lived in East New York to show her his room. She wigged out at the last minute, saying she didn’t want to be cooped in somewhere he smoked, and now she wishes she had gotten over herself and gone up. 
A few months later, over dinner at Mama’s, a now-gone home cookin’ joint where she took him for the fried chicken, which he indeed devoured, she explained that she liked him very, very much, only she couldn’t be around all the drinking ~~ he’d shown up at her apartment with a flask more than once by now ~~ because she’d had bad experiences with alcohol and men. 
“Oh Bernard,” she said, caught mid-breath as he wiped away the tears streaming down his face with those enormous hands. 
Making the decision to sleep with him agonized her for weeks. 
She hesitated because she knew that setting herself free into sex with anyone else would change things between her and Aureliano forever, and she was vacillating. But then came that one Friday night a month ago, when she sat cross-legged on the futon couch with the gnawed arm awaiting his arrival, all dolled up and wearing the jean miniskirt he loved, and it turned out that he hadn’t gotten on the plane and even lied about getting tickets to begin with. 
Of course, Aureliano’s antennae detected what was happening. He texted her within minutes after she had called Bernard and stowed a condom and lube within reach under the gnawed arm of the futon couch. 
A half-hour later, from within the embrace of those dizzying arms, she asked if they could stay down here rather than climb up to her loft because she knew that he might sweat and she didn’t want nicotine and the smell of smoke to seep into the bed sheets. (She needed a few months yet 
before she’d let that neurosis go and ask him to sleep over, and he would ~~ just sleep and nothing more ~~ so that she could feel a man next to her, and he, a woman.) 
She looked up at him as he propped himself over her, and marveled yet again at his shoulders and biceps, all covered in tattoos. 
It was the first time she came with a guy on top. Usually she had to be in control, with her eyes closed, exercising illusions of dominion. 
Afterward he lumbered back from the bathroom, touched her with one of those hands of his, and asked why she was crying. 
She shook her head a little, smiling kind of, and looked out the window at the spot across the street where Aureliano used to park the old tan Volvo station wagon two winters ago. 
And there is the moment: because in that instant, when her heart had broken open and she felt the swirl of agony and hope that arose from having gone where she had been so afraid to trespass, she knew, without question, that she was alive. 
  
Moment Twenty: 
At the Center of the Universe 
Even as she was on her way to Atlas, she remained unsure whether he would show. 
From the evening she spent on the futon couch waiting for the plane that he had never boarded, to the carrot of a silver ring from Taxco he dangled in front of her, there had been so many broken promises and unmaterialized plans; she has lost count. She is not sure exactly when or how they got into contact again. Things have gotten muddled. At first she believes he suggested this re-creation of their very first encounter after that summer when she’d almost succeeded in maintaining 90 days of no contact ~~ but then she consults her diary and discovers she is wrong about the year. 
When she told him that she had slept with someone else, he had expulsed “Oh Audrey!!” in disgust, and then hung up. She had sniffled and believed that, unlike the last time they’d ended it, and the time before, and all the others, now it really was over. 
But eventually they were back at it ~~ one of them sent a text, or the other called, and the cycle recommenced. 
As usual, their interactions remained mutually respectful and pleasant for a few days ~~ and then everything unraveled and went to shit. Another spring ruined, and buried. 
Once summer heated up, she had reached the point where she could stand it no longer and committed to 90 days of no contact. This attempt wasn’t the one I just mentioned, but, rather, the first one, which lasted for about a month. 
His response to the prospect of three months’ silence remains one of the nicest love letters she’s ever received, apologizing and naming all the memories with her that he was grateful for. 
He continued to text her periodically, and each time she saw something about love, or moving forward, or Building a Life Together, another layer of ice melted, and it became harder and harder not to text back. She cheated here and there, telling herself that some of her communications were not actually communications because they didn’t say anything substantive ~~ or whatever other nonsense she fed her delusions. 
In this manner she revised the 90 days to 30, and then decided 25 was close enough. 
She still promised herself, though, that she would not see him in Pasadena until after she had finished the California bar exam ~~ and, mind you, not on the second day, which she was excused from because she was already licensed in New York, but the third, when everything really and truly was over. She couldn’t risk it. 
But, of course, he told her she was being silly and should stop wasting time ~~ and she was, after all, staying in a hotel across the street from where he worked, and taking the bar exam in a building that he had helped renovate. And so she met him right after the first day of the exam, and they went to Griffith Park and lay together on a patch of grass where they could totally hear the 5, and then she spent the night at the apartment he was leasing in South Pasadena while he rented out his house. 
Shockingly, their evening turned out to be very nice indeed, and she felt relaxed and refreshed for the final portion of the exam, and, wouldn’t you know it, the performance test memos she wrote that day were eventually chosen as model answers out of work from over 5,000 test takers. 
She walked out of the exam room he had probably overseen the design for and drove straight to his place. 
That night it started up again ~~ just as soon as they saw each other ~~ though it was not nearly as bad as it would be the next time they got together in Los Angeles, when he kicked her out again. This time she just felt grateful that he had waited to tell her all the things that were wrong with her, and their situation, and that she’d been able to get through the exam, before the onslaught. 
After almost two years, she had learned that the way to get him to pay attention to her was to do the opposite of what her heart inclined. It was the same lesson her work had taught: to make it look effortless took every effort of which she was capable. 
So too in art, and the beauty that she sought to bandage over reality. 
The beautiful, for her, had always been that which, apart from concepts, found representation in the object of satisfaction. Such an extrapolation derived from an existence separate and apart from beauty itself. 
That separateness seemed to imply a universality, but judgment proved too singular to sustain the divide. And since judgment distinguished her feelings from thoughts, she was unable to discern the basis for satisfaction in any conditions connected to her ~~ accordingly, she regarded her sensations as grounded on what she could presuppose. 
She assumed that his experience of pleasure was equivalent. 
And so when he had told her, again, beautiful things like I Love You, and repeated something about Building a Life Together, she thought that he had the same ideas in mind as she did, and she once again believed him. 
On the walk to Atlas, humming the last two years of melodrama into whatever song played over her headphones, she thought of a story she read in The New York Times about the troubled modern history of the Plaza Hotel, which had appeared the month before Aureliano left New York. A co-owner of the Oak Room was struck by a 97-year-old man who showed up to have a drink at the Oak Bar ~~ his wife had passed away, and he had come to remember their first date. 
Audrey’s ego interfered with appreciation of how Aureliano had, in fact, now done the same thing. Instead her mind poisoned enjoyment by telling her that she was not worth meeting at the Plaza, and the location of her first date with him ~~ which she had to own up to having suggested ~~ was a little hole-in-the-wall vegan and non-vegan desert spot destined to shutter. 
She felt cheap. The red patent leather purse under her arm, picked up at a secondhand store, you remember, was the same one that she had carried that first night in Ixtapa. 
He was there already. 
She smiled as she took her seat, hanging her self-deprecation on the back of the chair with her purse: she was worth a trip across the country!! 
First the song “Time to Pretend” by MGMT played from the speakers overhead, and she felt herself lift up, and then “Just Say Yes” by Snow Patrol came flowing out, and she wanted to do just that, just say Yes, that’s all she wanted to do. 
Her enthusiasm sagged and fell out of the following day, when he declared that he would be staying at the big old house up in Katonah. 
Years later, when she thought about why he might make the decision to sleep there and not with her, she would realize that their catastrophes affected him, too. 
But in the moment, as what he was saying disappointed her, she thrust the words coming out of his mouth into the light of her indignation, and her selfishness twisted their sincerity into daggers, sharpened by the past year-and-a-half of waiting for him to somehow discern her needs and care for them even when she herself did not. 
The volcano erupted that evening, when he broke off their engagement from behind a cocktail at the pizza place where they used to go when he was still living in New York ~~ and all she wanted to do was hurl memories of all the dinners she ate here once upon a time with Yigal the Persian-Jew. 
She bounded up and stormed out of the restaurant, and did not stop until she was home. 
He showed up and tried to explain ~~ she sees now how her immaturity must have upset him, how he had simply been trying to express his needs, as she always did, relentlessly, bulldozing over his with expectations and so on. 
It ended with her sobbing, “You are my heart… You are my heart…” 
As he left, she gave him the painting of them in Ixtapa, his present for two Christmases ago. 
It was a moment the next day that I believe you are thinking of, when she was on her way to Grand Central to meet him, before he had a couple mid-day drinks at the hidden bar she always liked at the Marriott next door; before she reached the desperation of proposing that they just be lovers rather than partners ~~ anything to hold onto the thread between them; before (in an attempt to make him feel sorry for her) she told him that she was bipolar and had gotten on top of it recently in therapy (where the memories of Mr. Bagsby had bubbled up, even though she had originally gone to learn about disclosing her past to men and not anything any deeper); before he had returned the painting to her; before she watched him walk away to the train he was catching back to Katonah, wishing with all her might that he’d turn around and come back… before all that, as she was walking into this great big hall at the center of the universe, and was just excited that he had agreed to meet her before going home to Pasadena. 
  
Moment Twenty-One: 
The World from a Bus Window 
Her fourth trip down to Mexico to see him was the last one she would make before this story ends. He was going to take her to Manzanillo on the Pacific Ocean, and, this time, really this time, everything was going to be better, like in the beginning. 
And so she found herself in the little bathroom with the concrete sink freshening up once again, only now she stared into the mirror and wondered, for a second, whether she would be able to take care of herself if something happened ~~ and then she strolled out just as she had gone in, wearing a t-shirt and jeans, and no make-up. 
She did not complain about the size of the bed on this visit. She simply let herself go, stealing solace from the arms of a man, even if she feared he would lash out at her. 
The next day they drove in the old tan Volvo station wagon through Michoacan, over into Jalisco, and then down into Colima toward Manzanillo. It must have been there, after they’d turned onto the 200, which runs along the coast, that he stopped at a local convenience store to pick up some refreshments. 
As he was backing out of their parking space, he withdrew a banana from a little ice chest he’d brought ~~ and it just looked so good. 
“May I have a banana?” 
He gazed at her. 
“Last one,” he said, biting away at it, slowly, with his foot on the break. 
She shook her head and sat quietly. 
Several minutes later he reached into the ice chest, withdrew another banana, and gave it to her. 
She wondered why he enjoyed being so mean, but then delighted in the realization that he had thought of her and brought an extra. 
When they reached Manzanillo, he pointed out a subdivision where he said some of his extended family lived. 
“Do I get to meet them?” 
“If you behave.” 
She asked him to stop so she could take a picture of a nearby beach because, with the lounge chairs stacked and the umbrellas drawn closed, everything looked as lonely as she felt. 
“It was really hot last week,” he offered, motioning his chin at the storm clouds overhead. 
She smiled, happy to be enjoying the last few minutes that they would get along. 
The expression of saddened joy stayed on her face as they walked into the quaint old lobby of Las Hadas, a cluster of white buildings that sat like cotton tufts on the hillside above a beach overlooking the harbor. Their room had a balcony facing the ocean ~~ just like in Ixtapa, except now they were supposed to remember what it was like to fall in love rather than forget themselves in doing so. 
He always spoke of her beauty as if it were a characteristic of her, rather than a quality, and, after a certain point, his pronouncements twanged of judgment. Once, he had told her that she would look beautiful whatever she wore ~~ heels, tennis shoes, miniskirt, exercise shorts, evening dress, cargo pants. Now, he told her what he wanted her to put on. 
The beauty that he saw in her was aesthetical, and involved little more than the representation he imposed in his own mind. She had, in his eyes, such a similarity to what he judged beautiful that he thought her beauty true for all men, and commented on them looking from time to time. 
“You should wear a bra,” he would say, ever since she stopped. 
“Why?” 
“Because I don’t like other men looking at your nipples.” 
The universality he presupposed, however, arose from something other than his concept of her ~~ for concepts deliver no feeling of pleasure or pain, unless their purity overwhelms the senses. His taste accompanied a consciousness of separation from all interests, which was why he believed his view to be valid universally. 
He might have agreed that reality, whether having arisen from Nature or the Mind, amounted to little in the face of apprehension by the intellect. After all, the mind games they played did turn him on ~~ especially the part where he claimed that he didn’t like games and wished that she would just be sweet. 
Far from being brought closer to her by this mutuality, he seemed removed and apart from the very intimacy he said he wanted ~~ forever rendering his own aim a nullity. 
This one started over lunch when he ordered some sort of seafood dish served in alcohol. And then there was another drink. And another. And then she stormed off to the bathroom, and came back, and tried to keep a lid on it, and failed. 
He got angry at her for declining to ride back to Las Hadas in the car with him, and misbehaving as usual. 
And soon enough they were yelling at each other out into the street. 
That afternoon she lay on the bed and sobbed and sobbed. She sobbed as she had not sobbed since saying goodbye to Mohammed on the houseboat balcony a lifetime ago in Cairo, and the tears just kept spilling out of her eyes for over an hour. 
At some point he could not help himself and reached out to comfort her. She tried to reject him, but she couldn’t, and they held each other. She kept crying a little, then stopped. They started kissing and making love, but he pushed away. 
She ate dinner alone that night, walking through the mist to a restaurant on the water, where she was the only solo diner among the couples and dancing lights and quietude of night. She felt 
embarrassed and ashamed, trying to savor a meal that had no taste because she’d hoped to share it with him, and instead she was dining by herself, pitied by the waiters. 
There was another argument that night, and she found herself embarrassed and ashamed once more, at this stage down in the lobby, requesting another room because she was afraid. They didn’t have any. And so she trudged back upstairs (skipping the elevator for the stairs to get extra exercise), knowing that she couldn’t afford to pay the nightly rate anyway ~~ and wondering what was going to happen. 
The following morning, she did something she’d never done before. He’d left his phone in the bathroom, and she looked: after they’d argued last night, he called a whole bunch of female names. She quietly grabbed a pen and piece of paper and went back in saying it must have been something she ate. (She still has the list of names and numbers, in a drawer in her apartment in New York, tucked inside a notebook that she once used to communicate on a first date with a deaf guy all through brunch and a decent afternoon, until she told him about her gender transition, and he got up and left.) 
“What are you doing in there?” Aureliano asked, knocking on the door. 
Those antennae of his ~~ he just always knew. 
A bit later he told her she would have to leave that day. 
She tried to find a plane ticket out of Manzanillo but the prices were prohibitive. 
“I can’t afford this,” she pleaded. 
Her attempts at manipulation just made him angrier. 
He ended up taking her to the bus station. It was a five-hour trip to Guadalajara, where she’d get a hotel and catch the next flight to the States or however it is that she’d manage to get home, believing that this time, for sure, it was over. 
“Change, Audrey,” he said, putting a bus ticket in her hand and walking away. “Change.” 
It is a moment on the bus ride, about an hour or two into the mountains, as she looked out the window at the beautiful countryside, that I think you want: the moment when she knew that, no matter what happened, she could indeed take care of herself, and, even when she made mistakes, the world was still so vast yet interconnected, and the cycle of life would catch her. 
  
Moment Twenty-Two: 
An Embrace So Far from Close 
Orlando would, through no fault of his own, help her around a turning point in her evolution as a human being. 
I wrote about this piece of the story in my book There Is Room for You: Tales from a Transgender Defender’s Heart, though I left out a lot of the details. I related, of course, the buildup about how a friend of hers from the Russian & Turkish Baths ~~ Jim, whom she had gotten to know over the course of a year ~~ had, when she revealed that she was transgender, told her about a friend of his she really ought to meet because he, or she, was transgender, too. Jim kept messing up his friend’s pronouns, though, and Audrey just assumed the person was another woman. 
Which is why she was so surprised a few months later when it happened. Jim was celebrating his birthday (at the Baths, of course), and a whole bunch of his friends ~~ both male and female, but mostly female, and mostly younger than he ~~ were running around. Among them was Orlando, and what drew Audrey to him was his striking youthful beauty, and the way he carried himself ~~ as though he had stepped from the Roman Senate into the present. 
What bone structure. And what eyes. 
He reminded her of Hawk-nosed Greg. 
She had not, so far as she was aware, been attracted to another transgender person before. And since conversations with transgender people typically spiraled down into the rabbit hole of shared experiences in, or opposing views on, transition, she presumed that, inevitably, the trauma would outweigh anything that might have made the effort worth it. 
But with Orlando, her first thought, which she shared with Jim, was that she could marry this guy tomorrow, or become friends with him, or sleep with him once or a thousand times, or never see him again ~~ and her feelings in any instance would remain the same: she was, like, totally 
in love. And when Jim explained that Orlando was the transgender friend he’d mentioned before, the revelation intrigued her all the more. 
What I haven’t written, until now, is that she sensed where things would head right after she had followed the party to the roof, tapped Orlando on the arm and told him he was incredible, and he responded by saying he thought she was incredible, too. 
Even in that moment, the orbiting mass of her relationship with Aureliano bore upon the tides of her sentiments ~~ in the same manner as its gravity had pulled her away from meeting other men and escaping into the oblivion of love with someone else ~~ thus subverting any effort she made to cauterize the loose ends that extended toward her like tentacles, growing back as soon as she cut them off, regenerating constantly, a hydra of affection. Interactions with possible boyfriends would deflate, or collapse, or go full circle and close themselves off into suffocation, snapping her back to memories of Aureliano and how he was, all things considered, sexier than anyone else ~~ because he was so smart and understood her, and whatever happened with other men would either not have happened with him, or would have happened better. 
There on the rooftop, as Orlando encouraged her to eat some of the cake from Jim’s party, as he clasped her in response to her touch and was warm and affectionate and physical and just very there (he was Israeli, don’t get too hung up on the pseudonym), and as they exchanged phone numbers and she knew that he would call or text (as in fact he did), and that she was always going to be glad she had followed him up here and initiated a conversation ~~ even with the friendship that was about to unfold, still, she sensed, correctly, where it would all lead. 
The sense of the sublime in this interplay arose, for her, in consciousness of how trivial the body became in the presence of a universality that existed only in her idea of it. In this state, her certainty generated itself from the contrast between her insignificance and the interdependence of humanity, each individual phenomenon bubbling up into a generation of will, from which process she became aware of herself as the subject of knowing. 
Orlando saw her, on that rooftop, just as she saw him ~~ in a unique way. And the stars overhead ~~ those that survived through the glimmer of the city ~~ added to their vision a light that had burnt out long ago, like the meaning of a moment reaching us in a message from the past. 
The dome of the starry heavens is perpetually producing this sensation for her ~~ provided, of course, that she contemplates its expansiveness with reflection rather than projection, the opposite of the underground cave where we search for our own shadows cast on the creviced walls by a fire whose smoke will, if the flames go on too long, kill us. 
Orlando excited transcendence and reticence in equal measure through the vastness of experience that he promised. Reducing herself in contemplation of him emanated pleasure. 
Now, the nature of a man consists in this conflict, she thought: his will ~~ or whatever it was that shone out from him so brightly ~~ was satisfied in striving, anew and always, so long as his heart beat with life, toward love. Yet his happiness and well-being consisted in the transition from wish to satisfaction, and, simultaneously, the creation, from that very satisfaction, of a new wish. 
I sort of skipped to the end of their friendship when I wrote about them in the book, simply distilling the vignette into another, subsequent rooftop party on St. Mark’s Place, a year after they met, when she finally said Thank You to him for being so instrumental in her life. She had not known he was transgender, she explained, and, when she found out, she only became more intrigued to discover firsthand that attraction could surmount self-hatred. 
He hugged her, in that closely far-away way of his, there on the rooftop on St. Mark’s, emblazoning physicality onto one of those experiences in a building that she’d spent years and years walking by, and every so often wondered about, and then all of a sudden had found herself inside, as though time set up the climax by intention. 
You might choose that moment, just as you might select the last few seconds after the first movie they went to together, shortly after they’d met, you recall, when he walked her all the way home from that second-run theater on Second Avenue and 12th Street, where We Need to Talk About Kevin had peeled their defenses down to the bone, particularly that scene where the 
disturbed teenager played by Ezra Miller talks about how bad things have gotten, so bad that the people on TV are watching TV, a monologue that transfixes his frayed mother (Tilda Swinton) ~~ all of which I wrote about in the book, except not really, because I did not relate how, that night, she and Orlando stepped onto her block beneath the awning of tree branches that Hurricane Sandy would eventually bring down ~~ and they stood there on the sidewalk, in front of her apartment, right where she and Aureliano had stood when he walked her home from Mitali East on their second date ~~ and now, just like then, she thought the guy she was with might kiss her ~~ but he didn’t. 
Or any of the lovely moments in between, like the other rooftop parties he invited her to ~~ in Chinatown, in Brooklyn… or the night they saw the Iranian film A Separation together at Film Forum… or the time at the Baths when she took off her top and got just shy of naked with him and they smeared Dead Sea mud all over each other, and Jim, who happened to be there that night, shook his head at the both of them while staring down at her little mud-covered breasts… 
Instead, you might choose that moment on the hillside out in Prospect Park, the second or third or maybe fourth time they hung out (a few months after the misadventure with Aureliano in Manzanillo). 
They rode their bikes over the Williamsburg Bridge and all the way up the Slope, and then they lay in the grass on the northern lawn, still sparse in early spring, and she cuddled up next to him and closed her eyes. He texted her the next day to clarify, saying he wasn’t interested in her romantically, but he wanted to be friends ~~ that part I wrote about in the book. 
I sense that you might choose this moment for what I haven’t written yet, which is the very strange feeling she had, as she nestled into him and felt his chest move with the breaths and heartbeats that kept him on this planet, the very strange and extraordinary feeling that make-believe was enough. 
  
Moment Twenty-Three: 
It Hurts Less Now 
She received the text message while she was at a friend’s birthday party at some bar on First Avenue that she had passed by thousands of times but otherwise never would have entered. Although maybe she did go there, she now thinks, once, when she met up with another lawyer friend, a guy she probably would have dated if he’d expressed interest. 
Televisions bellowed and flickered in the front bar area ~~ she imagined the patrons would have called each other “bro” ~~ though she arrived a bit early in the evening for the place to have filled up. 
The group she was joining, a handful of women whose only commonality was their mutual friend, sat on the back patio, stretching to find anything to talk about. 
Men. They could always talk about men. 
For almost the entire summer, she had told herself that she would not talk to Aureliano, or even respond, unless he showed up in New York. 
Less than a week after he’d kicked her out of the hotel in Manzanillo, he texted her how extremely painful it was loving her, needing her, wanting to do all kinds of things with her and yet everything was always becoming so difficult. He wrote that he was going to Spain, a trip he had indeed mentioned before, and he really wanted to take her. It was troubling, disappointing, he wrote, however, he did love her ~~ he just needed to share. And he closed his Pandora’s box of temptations with the key: an apology. 
When she turned 35 a couple weeks later, she found herself wishing he would call. 
He didn’t. But, a few days after that, she received another text from him, saying he was back in Mexico again and couldn’t stop thinking of her, how easy it would be to be together ~~ if only they valued each other more. 
His merciless antennae ~~ he always sensed what to say. 
She had a relatively high-profile case going on at the time and focused on staying busy. 
He texted, again, unrelenting: he missed her and did not want to be without her. 
She stood her ground. 
But then she accidentally spoke to him because he called from an unidentifiable number in Saudi Arabia or wherever, and she picked up thinking it was work. Damnit. 
In the meantime, she had met Orlando, and that whole thing had begun. He made it both easier and harder to drift away from Aureliano. On the one hand, Orlando distracted her because he was cute and fun and cultured and interesting, a sort of renegade who wore old dress shoes with holes in them and dripped with passion for life that flowed without direction. On the other, there was the space that would always remain between them, the chasm she’d sensed the instant he’d responded to her touch atop the roof at the Baths ~~ and besides, even if she had buried her feelings with hope, as he uncrumpled $1 bills to pay for the food they ate at a Moroccan restaurant after they lay close together so far apart on that hillside in Prospect Park, she knew that she still wanted Aureliano, who kept his life in one piece, notwithstanding how the seamlessness with which he sewed it together meant that she could never squeeze in.  
Over the summer she had another job interview in Los Angeles, at the same place that rejected her last time, and she did not call or text or e-mail Aureliano the whole week she was there. And when she got back to New York, she messed around with a guy from the Egyptian national kickboxing team, or something, whom she’d met at the Baths. 
By this point she was at day 87 of 90 days of no contact. 
And so, now, as she griped with these strange women on the back patio of this bro bar, she believed she really would make it. 
Looking back, she sees that she had gotten stronger in increments. Not responding to his texts had taken it out of her at first ~~ the second week, after the initial novelty of feeling better about herself had worn off ~~ was always the hardest, and, of course, with those antennae of his, he texted her on day 30, though she hadn’t told him this time that she was going for a full 90 ~~ it never worked to explain ~~ she simply decided, and began. 
The muscles of self-defense that she’d had to rely on in her profession thus came into play in her personal life, wringing a healthy skepticism out of the belief that she was a second class human being. 
She was becoming, at long last, the artist she had always longed to be ~~ only the canvas was her life. 
Pleasure originated from the beauty she was creating with her own two hands: the life that she was trying to build, the consolation that the process afforded her, and the enthusiasm that enabled her to forget cares about the details ~~ a process that culminated in advantage over her own weaknesses, a thrill of repayment for the suffering that increased in proportion to the clarity of consciousness she gained. 
Her being rested on the fact that the essence of life, the will, existence itself, all were a constant sorrow, partly miserable, partly terrible; while, on the contrary, as idea alone, contemplated in purity, or copied in the art of the life she sought to live, free from agony, the world presented to her a drama full of significance: one in which she could control, if not the outcome, then at least her reactions to however things turned out. 
Those antennae of his perceived her progress, sure they did. 
She no longer thinks how uncanny it was that he’d texted her just as she’d invited Bernard over to have sex, or right after the evening with the Egyptian kickboxer, and so on. By now those 
coincidences had migrated into the realm of cause and effect ~~ every time she met a new man, Aureliano texted or called or e-mailed whenever things were getting started, usually right as she was opening up, or as she wondered whether she was emotionally available yet and could go ahead. 
And so she was not only unsurprised ~~ but also in a way relieved ~~ when, during the conversation with these strange women that probably included something about finally standing up to men, she looked down at her phone and saw the one text from him that could change things. 
He had come to New York. 
The first couple days were just lovely. She felt so happy that, at last, he had made the effort, taken a risk without having extracted a promise or a concession from her first ~~ he had simply organized a meeting of 25 colleagues here rather than elsewhere, just so he could see her. 
Look what she was worth!! So much planning and energy ~~ all on hope and faith ~~ as though she really really mattered!! 
She could hardly trust her ears when he apologized for dishonoring her and acknowledged that he could do better to respect her and her “spirituality.” It was he who used the word, not she, which of course shattered her because, even if all those other guys were cute and interesting and had nice bodies ~~ the Egyptian kickboxer, yes, and also the Lebanese U.N. worker who rollerbladed over to see her one magical summer afternoon, and of course Bernard, who still texted from time to time for another six months or so, and had by now slept over, just slept, once or twice ~~ even if those guys offered new experiences and other dimensions and ways of seeing the world and so much more ~~ 
They still would never love her as Aureliano did, never ever, not in the same way. 
And now he was here. 
And everything was finally better. 
Until the cancelled lunch. And then the entire day he didn’t call. And then the times he wasn’t picking up the phone ~~ what was he doing, exactly? All as though he had not arranged for two dozen people from around the world to convene in New York, as though he was not really there. 
They argued over dinner his last night about some miscommunication or other, and the next morning he left a hole the size of all the hopes and dreams he had awakened. 
The moment I want to remind you of came three days later, when she woke up feeling better, stronger than before, energized, having found reassurance in the certainty that she had engaged with him and felt something, but that, whatever it was, it didn’t hurt her quite as much, for at this point she required almost no time at all to recover. 
  
Moment Twenty-Four: 
The Night She Could Have Touched Him 
She met Non-gangbanger Gerardo in eighth grade ~~ after she’d already had her first kiss. He might have been a perfect boy to start with, alas, she was born about a quarter century too early, and, as much as she wanted to, she would not be ready to appreciate kindness as a quality in a boyfriend for another two decades, anyway. 
Her first kiss happened the year before, in the middle hallway at school, near the bathroom that she hated because it had no stall doors. (She didn’t want anyone to see her, even for a second, lest they stare at her, and laugh.) 
She thought that she should have a first kiss because there were a lot of boys and girls who had already started making out, most visibly between class periods in that center hallway, where the whole school intersected ~~ and she wanted to be among them. And so she had lain around on the floor of the band room after class one day with Exclamation! Jessica, pursuing a scheme that she and their co-friend Ginnie had cooked up. 
Now, Jessica had an older sister, which meant that she knew not only about Exclamation! perfume, but similarly how to wear makeup better than all of the other girls, and also that she was familiar with things like water polo (to which she would introduce Audrey later that year ~~ they’d practice in the same pool where she’d try to go skinny dipping with Hawk-nosed Greg a few years after that), and, on top of everything, her socks always matched her top. Jessica was a big deal, and Audrey’s crush had been months in the making. 
Ginnie’s role this afternoon was to hypnotize Jessica into wanting to kiss Audrey upon hearing the phrase “The grass is green” ~~ and of course Jessica, pretending to be way deep under, emphatically agreed. 
But then Audrey couldn’t spit out the words, neither in the band room nor over the next half-hour that they spent going in circles around and around through one empty hallway after another, until finally it really was time to go home, or else. 
The moment had come. Not far from that horrible bathroom without stall doors, Audrey sputtered, “The grass is green,” and Jessica spun around on one heel and skipped through the air. 
Jessica had a lot of braces going on, replete with a spacing contraption for her upper jaw, and her lips and tongue seemed very big. But Audrey liked it enough to want to do it some more, and so, over the coming weeks, they kissed to their hearts’ content in tucked-away corners around the school. 
Sooner or later Jessica’s pal Jordan appeared on the scene, and installed himself as one of Audrey’s closest and most enduring friends for the coming decades, despite what happened next. 
That summer, Audrey and Jordan made plans to sneak out at night and go to Jessica’s, basically just because, and so they concocted a meeting place (which happened to be around the corner from where Mr. Bagsby had put his hand on her thigh, and across the street from the house where, in a couple months, her new friend Annie would come and live), and somehow they both made it there at the same time, years before anyone had a cell phone. 
They hugged in the middle of the street. They were both so scared to be out this late, past the citywide curfew for kids their age, plus, Jordan had just walked at least two miles alone. 
On the way to Jessica’s, they hid in bushes and scrambled behind trees whenever they saw headlights, forming their arms into the shapes of branches, so as not to be seen and get caught. 
They made it over to Jessica’s in time for David Letterman, whom Jessica knew about and watched nightly because of the older sister, etc., and the next thing Audrey knew, she was listening to Jessica and Jordan slurping each other’s saliva and the sound of Jordan fingering Jessica on the couch. 
Eventually Conan O’Brien came on. Audrey wanted to go home. 
She said several Byes which went unacknowledged, and left. By this point she had decided that darting around and hiding was dumb, and being scared of the nighttime was for babies, and so she strutted a few miles all the way to her house, slipped in the back door, and went to bed. 
As a result of this expedition, once Gerardo came into her life the following school year, she knew something about the manifestations of sex, even if she didn’t really understand that two male-bodied people could actually do what she wanted to do together. 
From the very beginning, rather than tinker with the constellation in her mind that sprang from the dreams she had of him, she chose to appreciate them from a distance. 
Perhaps she could picture the process to herself as follows: out of the original firmament she had created the possibility of joy through impulses that evolved into beauty, just as roses bud from thorny bushes. How else could people like her, so sensitive, so vehement in their imagination, so singularly constituted to long for something more while suffering the limits of being human ~~ how else could anyone so created possibly have endured, if it had not been revealed, early in life, that there may be a higher glory for the spirit? 
Can it be that the same impulse which calls desire into reality, as a complement and consummation of life itself, seducing each of us into continuing, is also the cause of art and the human will as a transfiguring mirror? 
Art justifies life, in that we all inhabit the worlds we create, and existence under the sunshine of creativity and imagination is desirable in and of itself ~~ so grief lies in parting from such experiences, especially before they have shimmered into being through reminiscence. 
She wanted her feelings for Gerardo to come to fruition, yet knew that they would become a memory before becoming real. 
It started because of PE, the only class they had together. 
Oh how Audrey loathed those locker rooms, even more than that fucking bathroom without the stall doors. Almost all of the other boys had already started going through puberty in some 
way, while her own despicable body had yet to show any changes. Years later, she would of course be grateful. But back then, she was self-conscious, and changing into PE clothes made her want to die. 
Thank God they could stay in their underwear and just change into shorts and a white t-shirt, if they wanted to. At least that way she could keep the worst part of her body covered. 
Some boys clad themselves in boxers. She stuck to briefs that reminded her, secretly, of the navy blue Speedo she wore to fend off Mr. Bagsby. 
Gerardo was not, to her knowledge, a gangbanger. Like their older brothers who were off in high school, those guys (gangbangers in training, actually) wore long Dickies shorts, white tube socks, and sneakers ~~ while their girlfriends pasted on stonewashed jeans tapering into socks with imitation Birkenstocks ~~ at least for that year. Gerardo distinguished himself with fitted jeans and Air Jordans. 
You could probably have guessed that Audrey and Gerardo had adjacent lockers. Audrey had learned early on that the best way to deal with the gangbanger situation in PE was to become friends with everyone in the vicinity, so that’s what she did. 
Gerardo was really looking forward to watching The Simpsons ~~ there was a lot of hype around the first episode ever. So was she, totally. 
And there was the extent of it. Just keep being friendly and you’ll make it to the promised land of high school next year. 
Gerardo called a few weeks later. He’d gotten her number from Annie (who now lived down the street, remember, near where Audrey and Jordan hugged), and he wanted to know where she’d been today. 
She said that she had the flu. He said he hoped she was okay. 
“I’ve slept all day,” she said, “and now I’m never going to get to sleep tonight.” 
He said he understood; his mom likewise tried to keep him up even when he was sick, so that he’d still be able to go to bed at night. 
Audrey didn’t tell him that she’d had trouble sleeping ever since second grade (and, even if she had, she could never have explained why, since the memories of Mr. Bagsby had already gone away and would stay submerged for the next 17 years), back when she would try to drift off by writing stories in the air with the cursive that she had now learned, but still ended up awake. Instead she just listened, amazed how he went on and on. 
Gerardo came over several times, and, once, she went over to his house for a few hours after school. All of these years later, she wishes she had just appreciated the friendship that he offered, with sincerity, rather than grow impatient with the pace of his intellect and wedging space between them until he drifted away. 
After all, what difference would those concerns have made that one night he slept over, if she had only listened to the whispers of her heart? 
He was so close to her then, only an arm’s length away, and, whenever she looked down from the bed to his spot on the floor, the moonlight twinkled in his deep brown eyes and the sound of his breathing electrified the darkness. 
Do you remember being with me in that moment? Right when she could have slid out of bed and lain next to him, reached up through the distance now gone, and touched his face? 
  
Moment Twenty-Five: 
A Hug 23 Years Ago 
She was just so disappointed in herself for letting it happen again. 
How many times was it going to take? How many fissures could crack across her heart before it broke for good? 
She wished it would. 
The first 24 hours were not bad, as usual, in fact they were among the best she could remember. 
For dinner they had tortillas with grasshoppers, which she hadn’t eaten since the market at the base of the mountain that she doesn’t want to ask him the name of. 
She thought the lingerie he had purchased for this evening ~~ a sort of white netted body-stocking ~~ was tacky, but she wore it anyway, and he just went nuts. They made love right there on the couch. He bent her over the cushions, which she thought were unnecessarily hard and designed for people with short legs anyway, and touched her ass and kissed the back of her knees, and she shuddered all over like she used to back in the very beginning, you remember, and it was all very wonderful, better than ever, really, for all the time and horror that had passed, instead of weighing everything down, made it all the more special and hotter. 
She saw a cum stain on the front of the couch, a drip that had dried halfway down, the next morning, as she was sipping coffee cross-legged in the love seat across the room, luxuriating in the dawn even though she’d promised him she’d sleep in and enjoy things ~~ but that plan had fallen through as soon as she’d awoken with a smile from last night, and felt so eye-burstingly happy to be alive that she couldn’t stay in bed. She looked at the cum stain while she was practicing yoga, and again when she came back after her run, on which she had jogged past streets carpeted in purple leaves from the Jacaranda trees. 
 They ate breakfast ~~ she had made him stop at Trader Joe’s yesterday so that she could recreate her daily morning fare from New York right here in Pasadena ~~ and then he filled water bottles and packed lunches for them both. 
In his new car, an SUV from his company apparently, they fired up the 5 to the 134 and then the 101. It was the first time she had ridden down through the mountains into the farmlands of Camarillo toward Oxnard, and then on into Santa Barbara, and then further north in the direction of Lompoc, where, one day, she would go to the United States Penitentiary for work. 
La Purisima Concepcion left an imprint of frustration, though not because of the Mission itself. That afternoon, in this outpost of the past tucked inland among the hills and away from the highways, she walked through a series of rooms imagining the people who used to roam the grounds one or two hundred years ago, going about their business so far from Spain, and maybe paying lip service to whatever they were supposed to be doing and fudging over the details. 
The library enamored her with dreams of how meaningful each book must have been here, removed from cities and towns with other people. But her heart sank 15 minutes later, as she imagined out loud how daily life might have been for the once-upon-a-time blacksmith in the little blacksmith’s shop over there, and Aureliano stayed silent ~~ and everything grew heavy once they reached the garden in another five minutes, and she tried to hold his hand and he withdrew. 
Still, she found her buoyancy again once they were in the car on the way home, and the lightness of spirit made her talkative. She talked and talked as they inched back down the 101 through two hours of traffic, talked and talked, all the way to the 134, where, all of a sudden, he said, “I feel stuck in this relationship,” and the house of cards that was the nice day she’d fabricated came toppling down. 
She must, at some point, apprehend the extent to which the ecstasy she derives from him, an annihilation of the bounds and limits of her existence, contains the element of lethargy, in which her past is submerged in its entirety. 
This gulf of oblivion separates the world of everyday from the transcendental reality that sprouts from the communion of their minds, always at war. 
Once she regains consciousness of the everyday beneath the surface, she will acknowledge the nausea it engenders, the fruit of that state which negates her will. 
In this manner she will penetrate closer to the nature of things, irksome and unchanged, in a realm where the timeline connecting past and present is out of joint, and she will be overcome with shame and ridiculousness in the desire to set this disjointedness right. 
Her knowledge, then, will stifle, if not kill, action, since acting would require the veil of illusion that experience has now lifted. The idleness she has spent in dreams will dissipate the surplus of possibilities that she has daydreamed, and spur her to act. 
This transformation will, in turn, lead her beyond all comfort and awaken her longing for a world after death, past the glitters of existence in reflection and toward the face that reality presents of truth. There, conscious in perception, she will see everywhere the terror and absurdity that existence is, lapping over each another in waves that, one by one, will fill her with loathing. 
At this juncture, where her will is imperiled, she’ll turn inward for redemption and healing, realizing at last that she, and she alone, can alter the monstrous reflections that have haunted her into representations with which she might live. 
How it started up this particular time has been lost, the details pitched headfirst into the murk of the following hours, and the next day. 
They must have arrived home to his apartment in South Pasadena because the argument climaxed at the dining table, a few feet away from the liquor cabinet. She must have noted the cum stains on the front of the couch, though she probably didn’t smile now, as their confrontation continued to mushroom up from the grenade that he had lobbed on the drive back. 
At first she’d thought that he was kidding or perhaps needling her, and so she tried to ask him, exhibiting patience laced with interest, where, exactly, his dissatisfaction was coming from. 
“I want to help you feel unstuck,” she ventured. 
Her earnestness just fed him. 
Indeed, by the time they exited from the 134 onto the 5, they had already worked the situation into a foment. They jousted along the edge of a cliff overlooking the spot where Ixtapa had once been, eroded away into the ocean by the acceleration of time that had spun the forces of nature beyond all reason. 
She kept asking him what she could do, how she could be better ~~ a better listener, a better partner, a better person, and the rest of it ~~ trying to say everything she could think of to slow it all down, reset the visit, recalibrate what was happening back into a conversation… and then to dissuade him from pouring another drink, and another, and another, and another, and another, and another… 
At which point she finally said she was going to go get some dinner, and she went outside and walked and walked until she found a grocery store, where she purchased ingredients for a salad, and then she walked and walked back. 
Who knows what she hoped ~~ that he would be different when she returned, or perhaps that he would be gone, or asleep, or sober? But he was there, and he stood next to her in the kitchen, close, while her hands shook as she tried to separate the yellowed arugula from the fresh pieces (since she hadn’t been paying attention at the store and had bought a salad that was two days too old). He hovered over her, very near, until finally he jammed his hand into the leaves, flung a handful onto the plate she was working with, and said, “Oh Audrey, just eat it.” 
She tried again to fix things the next morning, probably too soon right after he woke up, and she kept trying in the car on the way to the airport, careening down the 110 to the 10 to the 405 to the LAX exit, at which point she realized that nothing she could do would stop everything 
from stopping, and so she unleashed herself and told him what an asshole he was, and what a disappointment, and what a horrible, horrible human being!! 
That approach didn’t work either, of course. And so there she stood on the curb, alone with her carry-on, hollowed out, scrolling through her phone for the nearest hotel that she could afford, wondering how much these incidents, had, in total, cost her. 
And whether there was anything of her left to give anyone anymore. 
From the DoubleTree, which cost more than she wanted to spend, but which was still cheaper than changing her flight, she walked over to Jordan’s apartment on the other side of the 405 to meet his children, who, in the rush of time compounded with the depths of whatever selfishness had given her excuses up to today, when she needed friendship, were already pushing teenagehood. 
“Oh Jordan, they are just beautiful,” she said, as soon as the kids had gone to bed and she and Jordan were sitting alone at the kitchen table, among a wall of books and an apartment filled with life, all of which would vanish when the family moved to Japan the following year. 
And it was the moment comprising the walk that they took together afterward, circling through a little park on a hillside nearby, that you might like especially ~~ when Jordan was listening to her, and helping her, and being her best friend, and their connection extended all the way back through time to that evening so many short revolutions around the sun before, about the same time of year and the same time of night, when they met and hugged in the middle of the street before venturing across town. 
  
Moment Twenty-Six: 
“You Inspire Me” 
She wonders whether she might have wanted, back then, to foresee how this particular obsession was going to unfold. Still, would the knowledge have lessened the burden she assumed all through that last semester of high school? 
Her crush on Scandinavian Sean had already begun building up by the time she and Secret Crush Amanda fell for each other. The urges and whirlwinds and flashes of teenage passion he sparked in her simply went into hibernation, while Audrey dove into the young love affair with Amanda that she would aspire to for the rest of her life. 
She became aware of him at least the year before, when, as a sophomore, she was still following down the path that Exclamation! Jessica had set her on with water polo, and swimming also ~~ perhaps she and Sean had competed against each other the previous spring? 
With his blond hair and blue eyes, Sean was basically a male-bodied version of Amanda. He even had a button nose, which gave his face, in at least that way, perhaps a touch more femininity than Amanda’s alluring tomboy profile. 
Although she had identified her feelings for him, she dared not name them until after what happened with Hawk-nosed Greg, well, I mean, after she had recovered from the part where she wanted to throw up, and, once she had moved forward from there, through the following weeks of twisting and flailing against her own fate, and she accepted, and had begun to enjoy, that she liked spending time in bed with boys, even if it did mean abandoning herself for 22 years, and more ~~ all of which I am coming to shortly. 
In the meantime, it unfurled this way: within days after their breakup, Audrey told Amanda about liking guys and her attraction to Sean, and so Amanda had not only renewed her lapsed friendship with him ~~ she was forever falling in and out of alliances, as suited the whim of her 
romantic designs on a month-to-month basis ~~ but she had in fact strengthened their mini-cabal and managed to turn Sean against Audrey.  
“I’m not gay,” Sean declared into the phone, with Amanda seated next to him. Audrey just knew they were in his bedroom, where she had sat only weeks before, on a night they had come so very, very close to making out. 
Audrey listened, and smiled, continuing to work on the mural about 12 or 13 feet further down from where she had been when Amanda first called about the secret crush. Audrey found every reason to enjoy the revenge that Amanda was exacting for their break-up ~~ because she knew that Amanda would eventually tire of this game and come back to her, for, of all the acquaintances that Amanda germinated, theirs would endure. 
As predicted, it was only a matter of time before Amanda was back in the baby blue Camry that had replaced the Volvo after it was totaled in the accident with the pregnant woman, and likewise Audrey assumed her position in the passenger seat of Amanda’s little white two-door Nissan Sentra. Feeding off one another’s obsessions, they drove in between Sean’s house and the house of whomever Amanda wanted to sleep with or torment next, and then, for old times’ sake, to the big white mansion, and the African coffee plantation, and all the other places they went in search of places to go. 
It was on the nights that Amanda was not with her that Audrey fell into trouble. 
She never meant to injure her soul. But the meaningless sex she had with strangers as she scoured the park down by the river until 11:00 p.m. or 12:00 a.m., or, if she hadn’t found anything by then, far later into the night (after, of course, first torturing herself with driving by Scandinavian Sean’s, and then by Broad-shouldered Adam’s), built a wall around her that rendered opaque and far away the beauty she wanted to merge her life with in making art. 
The tasks that she set herself after the park ~~ working on the mural, reading books, cultivating her imagination, watching Woody Allen movies, trying to make herself a better person, going and going until she collapsed into sleep at hours of the night that, later on in life, 
she would consider morning ~~ altogether remitted her to a separate realm, one where she was cut off from the materials and aims of every other form of human effort, and, most tragically, the very preservation and refinement of her soul that she was trying to achieve. 
She wished, if nothing else, to perceive a sense to it all, some sort of philosophy that would pull everything together and help her understand why things were happening, and how to improve them and fit in. 
The undertaking at hand, therefore, was to restore continuity between the forms of experience that constituted artistic creation and the everyday events, doings, and sufferings that crested in universal recognition as the components of experience. Neither did the peaks that she might reach in moments of ecstasy float in the air without support, nor could they simply rest upon the earth ~~ rather, they rose up out of the struggle to live a moral life while she compromised her ideals. 
Sometimes she sat outside Sean’s house, maybe around the corner but inched just far enough forward to see his bedroom window if she leaned, writing scribblings that he would never read. She did not usually stop at Adam’s, for by that point in the routine she would be overtaken by the compulsion to get to the park and search for men who were, more often than not, as old as Mr. Bagsby would have been. 
It did not occur to her to wonder where everyone else her age was. She assumed that what she was doing was normal, and that she deserved the disgust she felt afterward, if for no reason other than because the rush of pursuit obscured the self-loathing, and she felt natural after flagellating herself with unrequited affection. 
She sees now, years later, that all those nights in the park having sex with strangers amounted to a chase after the moment she left herself with Hawk-nosed Greg ~~ please be patient, I’m getting there ~~ although back then she was occupied with training herself that she must be unlovable and was unworthy of dreams. 
Prior to leaving for college, she went by Sean’s to say Goodbye. This time she stopped, and, now that the threat of anything happening had dissipated, they hugged. 
Sure, she still drove past his house, and Adam’s too, from time to time on visits home ~~ over Christmas breaks and those first couple weeks of summer before she was off again on one or another of her adventures to Egypt, or wherever. But by then it was just to reminisce, before she headed to the park. 
One night you might choose is the last time, so far, that she saw him in her hometown, a warm summer evening when she dropped by to catch up and he took her for a ride in his jeep with the top down. They drove downtown by the same road she took hundreds of nights after hunting for sex, and he changed the music and Tracy Chapman’s “Fast Car” came on. 
“One of my two favorite songs to drive to, ever,” she said. 
“I’m going to guess ‘Talkin’ ‘bout a Revolution’ is the other one?” he asked, referring to the song that precedes “Fast Car” on Chapman’s debut album. 
She looked ahead and felt the wind on her and yet she didn’t, because the temperature was just so, such that she couldn’t really tell where she ended and the rest of the world began, and she thought that, a few years ago, she would have given anything for this moment, and now here she was, and nothing more needed to happen for it to be an instant that she would cherish forever. 
Or you might choose their chance run-in at a lounge on Market Street in the Castro, where she met up with her sex addiction recovery sponsor to say Farewell before moving from San Francisco to New York, and Sean, who happened to be working the bar, did not even blink at her transition, but just smiled and said, “You look great.” 
But think also of the moment a decade later, as I know you are, after she handled a case that had made international news, when all of a sudden she received a message on Facebook saying that she inspired him. That note came one year after Aureliano had left her on the curb outside an airport for the final time, and one year before she met Billy from Philly, who would change everything. 
  
Moment Twenty-Seven: 
The Arms of So Many Friends 
You might just as well choose the moment in his former teammate Brian’s kitchen, around midnight, when she placed her hand on his shoulder blade, and more than 22 years of time drew a smile from the well of what-had-been. 
Broad-shouldered Adam was a reason that she purchased her ticket for the reunion at all, and he was among the handful of people she most wanted to see. The weekend started with arrival at the house out in the countryside that she and four other girlfriends were Airbnbing; then she found herself at a football game (which is where she learned that she had kissed Lindsay not once but three times); and then the crew were off to whatever new bar downtown where they were meeting the guys. 
Adam and Brian showed up together. Brian recognized her without hesitation because he’d heard years ago. But after she managed to work through the crowd to speak to Adam several minutes later, it took a second for his eyes to widen in recognition after she asked, “Do you remember me?” 
They saw each other at Brian’s house the following afternoon. The group now included Annie, whom Audrey had picked up from her parents’ house across the street from where she and Jordan had hugged. (Annie, in true form, brought pot, and Audrey had to say, “I have a national security clearance!! I can’t have that stuff in my car.”) And then everyone headed to the restaurant where the main event was hosted. 
She wanted to speak privately with him the whole night, but she couldn’t manufacture a chance until midnight in the kitchen, when he had sort of cornered himself while making tacos. (Annie, still in true form, would spit out a mouthful when no one was looking because they tasted too sweet.) 
He seemed thinner than she remembered him, and his shoulders not as broad, but maybe it was just that life had shrunk the whole world. 
“Adam,” she said, “I don’t know if you remember a conversation we had one night when I showed up at your house, but you are the first person I ever told about being attracted to men, and I have always wanted to say thank you for responding so gracefully.” 
(Those 22 years before, she had tapped on his bedroom window on one of the nights she was driving by ~~ before she touched the hairs on Hawk-nosed Greg’s leg and ended up in bed with him, and even before she had told Amanda about the guys thing and it being time to break up ~~ and she is pretty sure that she must have woken him because he was in his boxers when he opened the door and led her to his bedroom. They sat in the dark, talking, until she mangled the conversation into a pause where she sputtered out, “I like you,” and he responded, “I like you, too,” and she had to clarify what she meant. At which point he sat up in bed and said he couldn’t deal with this ~~ he wasn’t gay ~~ but the thing is that he said it gently, and with way more kindness and patience than you might expect from a football playing jock who looked the way he did. What is more, he still talked to her after that night, and he still accepted her invitation to ditch school one day and drive to Yosemite, though he slept in the car all the way up and all the way back.) 
The lights in Brian’s kitchen were brighter than she might have wanted at this age, as she awaited his response. Adam remembered that conversation, he said, breaking her heart and putting it back together again in the same instant ~~ the moment I already wrote about in a piece called I Mean, You Have Tits Now. 
If you’ve read that story, you know that the real kicker came on the car ride back out to the house in the country with the girls, when one of them asked why she was crying, and, after they exchanged a few sentences, Audrey came to understand that having been born in the wrong body was, instead of being what separated her from others, an experience of being human that anyone 
could understand, insofar as the phenomenon was no different, not really, from the invisibility that any teenager with a crush on someone who didn’t reciprocate might have felt. 
The conversation in the car with the girls reminded her of the last time she had been in a car with high school friends, two-and-a-half-years before, only that time the friends were all men. 
 Mortality invested her with a consciousness that had fissured her living self from her past, and her future, as well. The weight of what had been hung upon her all these years, and would likely invade whichever present in which she found herself, as nostalgia morphed into a sense of regret, of opportunities not used, and of consequences she wished either undone or instated retroactively, in hopes of transmuting her life into the one that she had wished for. 
Despite the universality that being different yielded, she still wanted to have arrived in the right body earlier, before high school, before jr. high, before elementary school, and indeed from the get-go. Then again, being female wouldn’t have guaranteed anything with Broad-shouldered Adam ~~ and, plus, then she would have missed out on falling in love with Secret Crush Amanda, and, who knows, Jordan might have been her first kiss instead of Exclamation! Jessica, a misalignment that would have hurtled the two of them asunder from a lifelong friendship, and, moreover, had she been a girl in second grade, who knows whether Mr. Bagsby would have satisfied himself with Candi and found, for a boy, someone else ~~ all of which would mean that her life, and her self as it existed, would never have been. 
Were she to adopt the past without hesitation, and fully, she could hope to befriend all of her embarrassments and errors, the ones that once made her cringe, now transformed into warnings that increased her wariness of the present. 
She owed everything to the hushed reverberations of the universe that whispered life into life… Like that last occasion she had been in a car full of high school friends, the time with the men, which was the first time one of those car rides happened since she had transitioned… 
They had just been to Layla’s memorial service, and most of their group were there ~~ along with a couple thousand other human beings whose lives Layla had touched, spinning gold. 
You know I’ve written before about how Unibrow Kurt drove the three of them to the airport for their flight back to Los Angeles. Jordan sat in the front seat, and Sexy-lipped Joshua had climbed in next to her in the back. After they ran out of tears, about midway across the San Francisco Bay to Oakland, one of them asked who everyone thought had changed the most. Her face lit up with certainty that she would win, until a second later when they all agreed that she was the same as she’d ever been. 
But what I want to tell you now is that you could just as well choose any moment from the last 24 years with Jordan ~~ when he showed up in the East Village in a rented Suburban (“Where the fuck are you going to park it? How the hell did you even find something like this monstrosity in the first place, and why?”), and remarked, upon seeing her for the very first time since she became a girl, that she had achieved a “very desirable” feminine form, or when their friendship somehow bounced right back from stuff like what happened when Letterman was on at Jessica’s house or when Audrey walked in on him and his then girlfriend (when they were all tripping balls) and said some really stupid shit ~~ but I understand if you would stick with their talk in the park near his apartment on the other side of the 405, after Aureliano dumped her on the curb at LAX, because it was in that exchange that she realized how much Jordan loved her, and she him, and it was impossible for her to fathom anything that could make that love change. 
With Kurt you might choose that one summer afternoon after their last year in high school, when they were all drinking in the park adjacent to the “temporary” classrooms, and she rose and demanded Jordan’s keys so that she could take his cruise ship of a decades-old white Pontiac for a spin ~~ and Kurt leapt up and said, “I’ll go with you.” 
Her crush on Kurt from first grade lingered; he had only become cuter and cuter. 
“What’s it like,” he asked, as they pulled out onto the street, “kissing another guy?” 
And with Joshua you might select the moment they met at the airport for the flight up north for Layla’s service, and he commented on the clarity of her eyes. You remember: the instant 
Jordan stepped away for the bathroom, and Joshua said, “I had all these questions I thought I wanted to ask, but as soon as I saw you they all went away.” 
Any of those moments would be just as wonderful. But the one I like most, and I hope you’ll agree, was in bed that night in the house out in the country, where she drifted to sleep held by the arms of so many, many friends.  
Moment Twenty-Eight: 
She Left Herself There 
And now the moment I have been coming to this entire time: one night in the winter of Audrey’s junior (and final) year in high school, when she arrived at the crossroads of breaking up with Amanda and the threshold of her future, and chose the wrong path. 
Greg was a year older, and she is not sure how their acquaintance developed. She does know, for certain, that he materialized in art class periodically, delivering messages or whatever he was doing to keep busy before he graduated. She would watch his profile move across the room like the head of a coin floating through space ~~ his strong forehead and angular hawk nose, slightly uplifted, cut the air like an angel’s wing. 
He had a white Camaro that roared. 
She did not really know what her feelings were, but she knew that she wanted to kiss him. 
Greg worked evenings and weekends in the café downtown that his father owned. She and Jordan would go there sometimes, and eventually she would display her art on the walls. Greg gave her free coffee, which made her feel special. She smoked one cigarette after another as she sat in the mezzanine above the kitchen, gazing down at him manning the register and coffee machines below. 
He was 19 when their fates crossed, and she was still 16. He was old for his grade or something, and, in any event, already physically a man. 
His extremities were extra large for his body, and he walked splaying one foot out in front of the other, kind of like Kevin Spacy, but with his spine erect and tall. 
How is it that two human beings ever come into contact with one another? How does a crush form and come to fruition? What is the force that draws us together? Why do we obey, knowing full well, even at a young age, where those feelings will lead? 
She was even more confused because she was still in a boy’s body back then, of course, and, even if it was cool and rebellious to come out as bisexual, boys were really not supposed to want to be with other boys. It was not ideal.  
The buildup took forever. She does not remember how she ended up at the house where Greg was living, over by the railroad tracks, a few neighborhoods away from the one where she had been raised in the same house ever since she was born. 
But end up there she did, and there they were in his bedroom, talking almost in whispers. 
When she felt fully alive, like this instant as she was about to experience another boy for the first time and knew it, the future seemed less ominous, surrounding her imagination like a halo. And the past ~~ which still would have been black for her in many places ~~ consisted of possibilities that broke into shards on the floor of here and now. 
Everything overlapped and merged ~~ yet still she tremored with curiosity about what even a second would bring, if, for example, he rejected her or pushed her away. Desire and apprehension, in this dance together, divided her. 
Even had she not been overanxious, though, she could not have enjoyed the experience so much as she might have because she subordinated it to what was absent: everything that this first time could be but was not. 
As life went on, the frequency with which she abandoned the present to the past and the future, and the space between happy periods, would leave her feeling incomplete ~~ but nevertheless she would continue the pattern, absorbing both memories and anticipation into her aesthetic ideal. 
Her pursuit of beauty was destined to destroy her, tear her apart down past the bone, over and over again, before it could finally reconstitute her and enable her to transcend all that held her back. 
  Only when the past and anxiety over the future had stopped perturbing her ~~ as you will see momentarily ~~ could she be united with her environment and therefore fully alive. And only then would the peculiarity and intensity of beauty combine into a moment in which everything that had been would reinforce the present, and the future would comprise but a quickening of what is. 
As she lay on Greg’s bed, she finally muttered that she liked the hair on his calves, and asked if she could touch it, and he said, “Yes,” and so she did. 
Her heart nearly pounded out of her chest. It beat so hard that, after the light was out and Greg was lying next to her, his armpits and groin smelling faintly of hay, he commented on the thumps. 
He was a much simpler person, in many respects. He would not go on to flee their hometown, or ferret the ends of the earth for adventure, or scale the ivory towers of federal court in New York and Los Angeles and the rest of it, as she would seek to do, and more. He would, instead, attend the jr. college in their hometown, continue working in his father’s café for another several years, and live a life of quiet dedication and responsibility, at least insofar as she knew until she no longer returned often enough to look him up, and they lost contact. He would represent the ballast that she would, throughout her life, wish that she had treasured and kept. 
Afterward, she drove away from his house feeling sick, and retching out the window in between drags on the cigarettes that she chain-smoked on the way home, rushing to get into a hot shower and scrub away everything that had just happened. She wanted the hay smell of him off her. 
She hated herself and what she had done. 
But nature prevailed over society, and, within a few days, the scent that had turned her stomach eventually drew her back, and she was at the café suggesting to Greg that they sneak onto school grounds one night and go skinny dipping in the pool (where she used to go to swim practice and water polo, beginning in jr. high with Exclamation! Jessica, up until she quit both earlier this year). 
They met in the side parking lot, near the “temporary” classrooms adjacent to the park (where Unibrow Kurt would, later the following summer, jump at the chance to talk to her on their ride in Jordan’s white Pontiac). He wore way too much cologne, but the masculinity of it excited her. 
They ambled through the hallways and she could hardly stand how much she wanted to hold and kiss him. 
His footsteps ~~ that way he walked ~~ echoed in the emptiness. 
They got to the pool but there was no water. She is pretty sure they kissed. 
He called a couple weeks later. 
“What are you doing?” he asked. 
“Nothing,” she said. 
And he was on his way to pick her up. 
She got into his Camaro and away it roared. 
They parked in the alley, which was empty, dark, and a little scary. She doesn’t think she had ever been behind those buildings before. 
He turned the key to the back door of his father’s café and they walked inside, through the kitchen area that she knew because the little bathroom was packed in there. He might have asked her if she wanted something to drink, and they might have shared a coffee. 
Or maybe they didn’t wait. 
Upstairs, they lay on the floor of the mezzanine, a few feet from where she’d sat so many times and looked down at him, hoping he’d look up. 
They were naked like experts now. Their skin was pale from winter, and their muscles quivered with adolescence, seeping the aromas she now recognized as exciting and delightful. 
He had very nice nipples. They stood hardened in the air. 
The stubble along his jawline scratched her cheeks and her lips. 
She shed the cloak of embarrassment that her body was still almost prepubescent ~~ he understood, or didn’t mind, or liked it that way ~~ and their bodies swung around like clock hands in a Dali painting, and they went down on each other simultaneously. 
It was in this moment, as she closed her eyes and inhaled that faint smell of hay, and right before she left her body for the next 22-and-a-half years, that you might have chosen a different life ~~ one of normalcy and love and affection, without the parks and the self-hatred and the doomed relationships and everything that followed. 
What if I leave my body and float away to the ceiling where I can watch all this as though it’s someone else? 
Because it’s not me in this body with this man, not my childhood that he’s taking, not my innocence, not my pride from being chosen as fly monitor and classroom monitor and having all these responsibilities and being special, none of this preciousness is being taken from me, it’s not happening, it’s not me, I’m not real. 
I’m not here anymore, I’m gone. 
And so, instead of sinking into the arms of an exquisite young man, she left herself there, soulless, and that was that. 
  
Moment Twenty-Nine: 
Her Little Life Becomes Mine 
Even with the thousands of books she read in the intervening years, she cannot remember another one keeping her up at night since she plowed through The Lord of the Rings (on the trip to Switzerland I’ve mentioned, over the summer following that moment at her desk with her grandfather before he ceased to be). 
She has been in her house in the barrio for a year now, and in Los Angeles for two. She and Aureliano live about seven minutes away from each other, although she has reached the point where she just laughs when he professes his love, or tells her she needs to do this or that, or breaks another promise, cancels plans, or simply doesn’t show up or call when he says he’s going to. 
She’s dated various men up to now, including Billy from Philly, with whom this story will near its close, but the problem is that, still, no one seems quite as smart and incisive as Aureliano ~~ or perhaps she’s just so used to their cycle that the idea of breaking it seems beyond her reach, and anyway she’s grown to feel a little turned on by the sado-masochism of it all. 
The time they spend together every month or two seems to go best when she blames herself for everything that has gone wrong during the past six years. He doesn’t correct her, and maybe he even assents. He likes feeling power over her, and she likes letting him think that he has it, and he likes knowing that she’s only pretending to cede her ground, and she likes that he can see right through her. And so on. 
She stopped keeping track of the letdowns months and months ago, perhaps even years at this point. What would really disappoint her, if she thought about it, would be how she has calloused herself to the point where she doesn’t even feel disappointment anymore; she doesn’t really feel anything except melancholy over not feeling. 
If you had told her when she was starting out, or even just a few years ago, that she would become such a person, she would have done everything she could muster up, and more, to prove you wrong. Now she would just smile and say, “It’s not the life I wanted or hoped for, but it’s the life I have, and life is precious.” 
There are any number of dinner plans ~~ he’ll pick her up at seven, or at eight, or later. Whatever. She doesn’t care. She knows he won’t come and has already left the house to do something else when the appointed time arrives. 
There are plans to enjoy the symphony, and outdoor concerts downtown, and movies at the cemetery. There are make-believe sojourns down to Tijuana and Baja. There is something about Telluride at some point. There is even talk of him visiting in New York on one of her trips for work. 
“Sure, I’d love that!!” she exclaims, wondering what it might be like to meet a man she is attracted to, where attraction means something positive, and affirming, rather than another reenactment of what happened with Mr. Bagsby in second grade. 
She is a cliché, and that realization is what stings. She has spent all this effort ~~ a whole lifetime of striving and striving, swimming upstream every stroke of the way, searching and yearning and longing and endeavoring ~~ all to learn that she has yet to become more than the sum of her past, nor might she ever. 
That night on the mezzanine with Greg was not really when she left her body, and she knows it: she left her body on Mr. Bagsby’s lap, and there it still sits, tied neatly into the navy blue Speedo with a double knot, frozen by the horror of a touch. 
In much of her past she has not been concerned with the connection between any given incident and what went before and after. This particular experience was an exception. 
There is little interest that can control her attention or selection of reality into the developing experience of beauty in any given instance. Things happen, but they are neither included nor excluded for certain. 
She is adrift. She has been detached from reality and truly caring what happens, from the very ecstasy and heights of emotion that she lives for, from the potential of love even, for all these decades of life that she must have lived, but which have assumed the qualities of a dream. 
She has yielded to pressures from outside her; she has abandoned her ideals. 
Her experiences amount to a series of beginnings and cessations, lacking an initiation or a conclusion in truth. One thing has replaced another, and another, and another ~~ but nothing has been absorbed, nothing carried on. 
The demons that she has fought have been enemies of the aesthetic her spirit perceived ~~ fabrications of the mind. These foes are the Humdrum, the slackness of loose ends, that hydra of affection with its tentacles outstretched, as she submits to convention in practice and procedure when, instead, she might have innovated something true. 
Her rigidity, which Aureliano continues to remark on, her coerced ~~ and feigned ~~ surrender to him, the tightness of her routines and patterns of thinking on the one side, and her incoherence and desultoriness and indulgence on the other ~~ all these tendencies draw her in the opposite direction from the unity of experience that is, in the end, all she has ever sought. 
Probably she would not have braved Hanya Yanagihara’s A Little Life if a friend of hers from law school had not posted a photo of his hardback copy on Facebook, captioning it as the most moving work of fiction he’d read in his entire life. Probably she would have leafed through it at the airport when it appeared on the shelves a few months later, and decided it was too long, hackneyed and predictable in its subject matter and character choice. 
Or maybe she would have given it a chance, especially being captivated by the face of a man in severe pain on the cover. (Later she would learn that he was having an orgasm, which only made her love it, and the book, all the more.) 
She might have liked the first chunk, in which four men, one of them gay and another straight and two of them something else, converged on New York after college, and experienced a lot of the phenomena that she did back when she came to the City with its lights in her eyes. 
Certainly she would have kept going as the story pulled her further in, closer and closer to the human experiences that the book engendered and incinerated at the same time. The violence, the brutality, the self-loathing, together intertwined with the beauty of art and the intellect ~~ it all unraveled before her into a vision of life that she could relate to in every way because she herself knew so deeply what it meant to believe that she was nothing, worth nothing, and capable of nothing, even while someone outside peering in, all her friends, for example, Unibrow Kurt and Sexy-lipped Joshua and Exclamation! Jessica and Best Friend Jordan and Non-gangbanger Gerardo and Secret Crush Amanda and Scandinavian Sean and Broad-shouldered Adam and Half-bald Drew and Yigal the Persian-Jew and Billy from Philly (he’s coming) and everyone else, not to mention all the men she’s encountered and maybe dated or kissed or flirted with, and all the women too, all around the world, our great big miniscule world, and I am talking about not just the people she’s gotten close to, but also human beings everywhere all through life with whom she’s exchanged kindness, interludes long swallowed back into time ~~ this waterfall of moments and people have in fact been, and, what is more, are all real, for even now every moment remains embedded within her, in the form of synapses that have connected neurons in her brain, there are so many thousands of those moments, tens and hundreds of thousands, millions, and many many many millions more, indeed, after she was lucky enough to be alive for 31 years and 251 days, there were more than a billion seconds of her consciousness ~~ and counting ~~ 
And all of This comprises her and makes up her life, and the whole fucking thing is so goddamn beautiful, even including the terror that laces it all: the inevitability that, at some time certain, 
everything will cease to be… just like her memory of being in Mr. Bagsby’s Corvette when he reached over and put his hand on her thigh and everything goes black. 
She barreled through A Little Life because she couldn’t stop inhaling it as the air she needed to breathe. She feared finishing, but raced through the pages with the inexorability of seconds on a clock. 
About two-thirds of the way through, she ran into a sentence that erupted off the screen of her phone and into her: “This time, he keeps his eyes closed, imagining that soon, he too will be able to go wherever people go when they kiss, when they have sex: that land he has never visited, that place he wants to see, that world he hopes is not forbidden to him forever.” 
That land, that place, that world where she had always dreamt of visiting, too. 
Where all the beauty we feel is real. 
Tears streamed down her face but on she went, relentless in lacerating herself with the misery and self-deprecation and anhedonia that she recognized from her own life ~~ there were moments, especially in that final hundred pages, where she could not breathe. 
And when she neared the end and saw what was going to happen, she screamed out loud through the sobs that soaked her face, and she threw herself to the floor, and ~~ just as Amanda had kept holding her cigarette as the car had spun in circles across the street ~~ she held her phone in her hand, and read. 
It was that moment that I would probably choose out of all the others, if I were you ~~ when reading proof that I was not alone in these feelings, or in the world, brought me back to inhabit my body for the first time since second grade ~~ that moment is the one I would probably choose from everything up to now, if not for what happened next, first on Valentine’s Day two months later, and then on my 39th birthday just shy of a month after that. 
  
Moment Thirty: 
After a Goodbye Kiss 
I apologize if the chronology has seemed jumbled anywhere. But by now you realize that the sequencing doesn’t necessarily matter all that much ~~ our relationship has spiraled for so long that any given moment is a question of tossing a dart blindfolded and relishing in whatever you hit ~~ a sort of drinking game with love and sex. 
The theme of late has focused on Baja more than anything ~~ another trip to Mexico, where we will, once again, reawaken our passion for one another, become one, and “build” together. 
“Come to Mexico tomorrow,” he will text me. 
“I’d love to!!” I’ll reply. 
And then nothing further. 
Or perhaps he’ll ask when I’ll be arriving ~~ at which point I’ll do a quick search of flights and text back something like, “I can do [this one] or [that one]. Please just send me the ticket confirmation and I’ll be there. Can’t wait.” 
To which he’ll respond that he’s not buying my ticket, I have no trust, I need to hold up my end of the bargain. You know. 
I’ll reply that I don’t have the sort of money for these excursions, I wish I did, but I had a bad year last year. Or something. 
He’ll use the exchange as an example of how I have no idea what commitment means, I am selfish, I am rigid ~~ you’ve already guessed. 
Years ago my temper would have dashed in and tried, in desperation, to remind him that he had promised to pay for my last two flights to Mexico (in fact those promises were prerequisites for the trips), and that I spent a couple thousand dollars dealing with the fallouts and I just can’t 
sustain those financial hits anymore ~~ I would have tried and tried and tried to get him to admit that he understood, and say he was sorry, and manipulate him into assuming the risk. 
But now just thinking about how that conversation goes will tire me out, and I don’t want to remember any of it anymore. I just wish that the whole motherfucking affair had never happened, that the armor I wore to Good Stuff on our third date, my Transsexuals Do It Better t-shirt (a remnant from a random t-shirt printing shop on an accidental afternoon in the Village with Yigal the Persian Jew), had succeeded in pushing him away before we kissed for the first time, that I had just adhered to one of those goddamn periods of no contact and never spoken to him again, and that he would just meet someone else already, or that I would, or that I would stop having feelings altogether, stop being human, stop dreaming and wishing hopes that keep birthing themselves out of me like deformed slugs destined to froth life for an instant, and then die. 
“I’d love to!!” I’ll say when he texts an invitation to dinner tonight, or two days from now, or three, and then I won’t even notice when it doesn’t happen. 
“I’d love to!!” I’ll exclaim when he suggests another movie I’d told him I wanted to see. Only then, astonishingly, he’ll be outside my house here in the barrio and I’ll walk out wearing the jean miniskirt he’s always liked, and we’ll be on the 101 driving to Hollywood. 
Except that I’ll have misread the time for the film, and also the restaurant we’d planned on going to will be closed, and I’ll say it was all my fault, I fucked up, I am a fuck up ~~ and he will feign an objection, or maybe he won’t, and I will savor my meekness because it really does soothe things over and render our interactions almost pleasant. 
The problem, as you can see, is that he doesn’t always fall through. And sometimes he tugs on my heartstrings by showing up in the old tan Volvo station wagon, which he still has even though he’s gotten a couple new cars since we first met. 
And sometimes, every so often, we’ll have sex. 
Imagination remained as the instrument that I relied on through it all to carve out the good. As much of a commonplace as it was for me to claim that my ideas and treatment of him depended on my powers to extrapolate how he must feel due to all my flailing and failings and melodrama over the years, so too the primacy of my mind’s eye always saw beyond our relationship to spite. 
Even after all this time, my ideals creep into my consciousness, infecting our interactions with an inclination toward love and beauty, in deference to the reverie of sentiment destined to revitalize our moral outlook and loyalty into the imagination itself. I love him so much, I tell him, and he responds that he loves me, too. “We live just seven minutes away from each other,” I’ll say, remembering how he used to tell me stuff like, “I spent my whole life looking for you and we somehow found each other,” and doesn’t anymore. 
Back then his words were poetry in verse, objects of art crafted specially for my ears, and I adored him so very, very much. I remember those moments with precision even if the present curdles into a scramble before it even exists, stunted by the stupor in which we interact like addicts so blunted by mundanity that our song of life has become a slur. 
The vision of possibilities that once drove us has converted into a proclamation of facts, and hardened. Imagination verges on falling casualty alongside memory and love. 
What we have left, where we had once been, in the space we had created together and where we could have been united forever, is the time suspended in that picture he happened to snap while we awaited the old tan Volvo station wagon from the valet in Ixtapa, the moment that both of us will retain until the universe has washed us away forever, the moment we had each lived our lives for, and always would. 
Valentine’s Day. 
At first I thought we must have gone out to dinner. But then I recall that we didn’t, since neither of us seemed to remember the holiday, nor would we have cared. 
The last time we’d had sex was a disaster. It was some Sunday morning when he’d texted me that he was horny, and we’d spoken on the phone, and I’d said, “Why don’t you just come over,” and he must’ve had nothing (and no one) better to do. 
I was reading when I caught his head in the window from the corner of my eye ~~ I hadn’t gotten ready or anything, for the last thing I’d expected him to do was actually show up, and I’d already pushed the possibility out of my mind in the ten minutes since we’d spoken. 
It was a beautiful Los Angeles winter morning, 70 degrees and sunny, the hills glistening behind him as his outline shone in the doorway. He was wearing a nylon jump suit that turned me on because he already had an erection, and the track pants, tented up at the groin like on that walk back down Houston after Agent Provocateur, invited me. 
He took me with a degree of roughness, and within a minute we were making out on the floor. He pulled off my shorts, and my shirt, and went down on me. 
“Let’s 69,” he said, and, for a minute, we did. 
He seemed into it; I was not. My mind was stuck in A Little Life still ~~ as much as I wanted to let go into the pleasure of adulthood, the thrill of being with a man I continued to love, however fitfully, over six years later, the sexiness of him reverberating from the collision of our worlds as the force of gravity brought us back together to fuck… 
I couldn’t. 
I just couldn’t. 
We would stop for a minute and he’d be patient with me. I’d apologize for my “episode” ~~ the word, used throughout A Little Life for what the central character went through, sprang to my lips. And after it passed I’d try again, I’d even give him a blowjob to say sorry for retreating just now, right when things were heating up. But it wouldn’t work and he’d leave (though not before stroking my face). 
As I was about to say, Valentine’s Day started in much the same way. I texted him, or maybe he texted me, and I tossed on an outfit that I thought he’d like, and headed over. 
We sat on the couch for a while, not the one that got the cum stain on it years before, but the other one, the love seat, and we had the type of conversation we should have been having all these years… 
I asked him how work was going, and he told me ~~ not in too much detail like he sometimes did when his mid-life crisis first hit and he was grappling with existential questions about what he wanted from here on out. And he asked what was going on with me and I told him, likewise sticking to the surface of things, where all was light. 
We started kissing, and our lips were warm, and we hugged also, and eventually I took off the heels I’d worn for him, and the feminine flowy top, and the jean miniskirt of course, and he complimented me on my panties, the black satin ones with pink lace that tied with a ribbon zigzagging in an upside down triangle over my pussy. 
In bed we 69’ed again, and now, for the first time in as long as I could remember, perhaps, in a way, for the first time in my whole life, I jettisoned all my hang-ups and just enjoyed the smells and the tastes and the feelings and the sensations and the whole experience of it, expecting nothing more than the pleasure I delivered and received in equal measure. 
And I made sure, at long last, of what I kinda always knew: he’s uncircumcised. 
It is not so much the moment afterward, as we lay in each other’s arms among his nice clean sheets, when I said, “You know, I still love you,” and he said, “I love you, too,” as beautiful as that conversation was. 
Rather, it is the moment several increments later, after I had dressed and kissed him Goodbye, and after I had turned and smiled and waved my fingers from his bedroom doorway ~~ the moment when I let myself out the front door and slipped away into the rest of my life. 
  
Moment Thirty-One: 
Of Course He Would Come 
The last time I had seen Billy was the summer prior, when he had stopped by for his camera stand and the light fabric shirt that he’d left in my closet. 
I have come to believe that there is an identifiable moment in each of my relationships where I fall in love. With Yigal the Persian-Jew, it was on the futon couch with the gnawed-away left arm ~~ the same futon couch where, as you know, I would later sit and watch out the window as Aureliano warmed up the old tan Volvo station wagon after spending the weekend, and where I had sex with Bernard for the first time, and also where I sobbed when I couldn’t reach Mohammed and knew that that whole part of life was gone. 
With Billy, it was the first time our hands touched ~~ although we would not start up with each other until months later. 
I had been driving over to the Westside for dance class on Sunday mornings since I had first moved to Los Angeles, even before I bought the house in the barrio seven minutes away from Aureliano. 
It’s not that I hadn’t noticed Billy. Of course I had. I just assumed, as I always did by now, that he was either married or already in some form of a commitment, and that, even if he were available, he would not be interested, or, if by some disturbance in reality he found himself intrigued, that he would lose the attraction once he got to know me. The latter prediction turned out to be the case, but not before he became, for those several months that I am granted in the beginning, before everything comes apart, the nicest guy I have ever dated. 
The first time we spoke was after dance class, when one of us had struck up a conversation. I tried to push him away by dropping hints that I was ruined for love at this point, but he just kept 
talking, leaning against the wall in the early afternoon sunlight that cascaded through the large windows above our heads. 
I hazarded a guess that he was from Trinidad, and he responded that it was actually Philly. But we did have New York in common, as everyone I gravitated toward out here seemed to. 
We danced two or three times over the next few months before the hands thing took place. Each time I would stay with him just long enough to feel something, for a second, before I was off again, dancing on my own. 
And then one Sunday it happened. 
Our bodies came together and we danced for a few minutes like usual. But then, right as I was about to twirl away, I decided to stay, or rather staying decided me, and all in an instant we were closer than we had ever been, our skulls leaning millimeter by millimeter forward until our foreheads kissed, and our hands met in the air. 
His palms against mine made my whole body tingle from its beginning all the way up into the tips of my eyelashes. 
Pasadena. Two months later. 
I should have known that our first date was a date well before he had to tell me. 
The backstory here is that we had been messaging back and forth on Facebook ever since the dance on New Year’s ~~ a special three-hour class that led right up to midnight, which he had DJ’ed, playing a number of sets from his past couple albums. He was wearing one of those light fabric shirts that I loved ~~ it hovered over his shoulders and rippled upon the torso that would later cause my mother to note that he was “quite a specimen” ~~ the same lonely garment that he’d come to pick up the following summer. 
During a break in his performance, there was some sort of artsy interlude in which we were all encouraged to draw with crayons on the mural paper that had been rolled out and taped up around the performance hall walls. 
We ended up fiddling with each other’s fingers and tracing our hands apart, and then overlapping, and, as we giggled, I thought of the last time our hands had touched, back whenever that one particular dance crescendoed and we inhaled one another. 
I left early, before the New Year rang in, and he sent me a message about Cinderella and midnight, and I smiled to myself because I had used that metaphor to describe the whole sex change disclosure nightmare for years now ~~ and still, I didn’t realize. 
I remained obtuse because, as you now know better than anyone: the world I inhabit is never an object that stands before me, anything that can be seen. Rather, it is the ever-nonobjective to which I am subject as long as the paths of birth and death, blessing and curse, keep my heart transported into being. 
I wasn’t even aware that it was a date when he showed up at my house in the barrio with flowers ~~ something he would do often over the coming months before I ruined it ~~ I just thought he was being a friend. 
It was only over dinner ~~ Indian food that managed to be two shades too bland, probably because this place was in Pasadena, a city that is very pleasant but lacks flavor, I mean, they have the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory but the parking meters still take coins ~~ when he finally said, “I’ve been wanting to ask you out for a long time,” and it dawned on me that he liked me, and it was okay for me to go ahead and admit that I liked him back. 
Most of my favorite moments from our relationship were the ones that materialized in the same manner he had appeared in my life: just like that. 
When we were on our way up to Crystal Lake in the Angeles Forest in his clunker of a charming old RV named Tinkerbell, and I accidentally rested my foot on the floor too close to where the carpet had been singed away and the heat from the soon-to-malfunction carburetor scalded my foot. After Tinkerbell had inched up the winding road, I limped along the rocky trail to the so-called lake, which, following three years of historic draught, had dried up into a rancid puddle; later we ate dinner at sunset parked on the side of the road halfway back down the 
mountain because my morning routine had gone on too long, and, by the time we’d made it to the camping grounds, there wasn’t a single site left. 
Or when we were working one of those weekends for a month-and-a-half straight on the guest quarters downstairs, humming to the music broadcast from my laptop through the actually very decent Bluetooth speaker, and he stuck his head out from the bathroom, his face splattered with white paint, and said, “Any girl who likes The Chemical Brothers has me wrapped around her little finger.” 
Or any of our hikes in Placerita Canyon State Park, and Eaton Canyon and Escondido Canyon ~~ those endless hiking trails we were only beginning to explore before I imploded. Or all the episodes of Archer we watched from my living room floor drinking tea and eating figs. Or the times he showed up at the airport, waiting (one level below where Aureliano had left me), with more flowers. 
I had been pushing him away from the very beginning ~~ it’s just that we both hoped, for as long as we could, that I’d finally get over Aureliano, and more so myself. Unfortunately the timing was off, albeit just barely, and near the end I found myself alternating phone calls between the both of them. 
It was only a matter of time before Aureliano told me, “End it,” and I did. 
Not explicitly, of course ~~ I knew that I wanted to be able to blame Billy, and finesse him into blaming himself, so that I might reinforce my feelings of less than, and revel in the demise that I believed was my destiny, if only because I was just short ~~ just barely ever so short ~~ of reaching the point in life where I could finally vanquish the proclivity to ensure my own solitude. 
And not even in person!! On a visit to my mom, I was sitting at the same table where he had first met and eaten with the whole family only a couple months before ~~ except now I talked at him into the phone, coaxing and prodding, until finally he admitted that he did not know where our relationship was going. I begged off and called Aureliano to tell him I had done as he asked. 
The months of phone calls and cancellations and sex that you already know about ensued, culminating in the Valentine’s Day when ~~ at long last, just weeks before turning 39 ~~ I settled into my own skin after A Little Life brought me home. 
To celebrate my birthday the following month, I hosted a performance that I really wanted to give. After convincing myself that this event would surely suffer the same fate as the last debacle I threw (back in New York four years ago, when almost no one came), I was shocked that so many people showed up and filled almost every seat on the back patio of that little neighborhood bookstore in Echo Park, where I’d conceived of and worked on much of the material that I performed. 
Traffic kept Billy from making it on time, and I figured that he might not show up at all ~~ that is, until, right as I was taking a breath before telling a story about a man, he walked through the doorway to the left behind me, and everyone looked over at him: he was carrying flowers. 
The moment I remember most effervesced during my birthday dinner afterward at the restaurant next door. Billy sat next to me and we were both across from my parents, whose effort to drive into LA touched my heart. We talked and we laughed and it was like old times all over again, except only sadder, dipped in the poignancy of what-could-have-been. During a pause in the conversation, he slipped in that he liked my cream and gray snakeskin-design tights, which I had worn especially for him, along with the jean miniskirt he liked ~~ the one that I had put on for Aureliano on Valentine’s ~~ and I cast my eyelids down and said, “I chose them just in case you’d come.” 
“Of course I would,” he whispered. Then he reached through the breath of space in between us and placed his hand on my thigh. 
Upon which I looked up. 
  
Moment Thirty-Two: 
The Ballet 
To Whom I Could Have Been: 
Thank you for allowing me to be in place of you. I am as far from perfect as I could possibly be, but I hope that I have nevertheless given you the chance you always wanted, which is no more, or less, than that: a chance. 
I am so sorry I did not turn out the way you might have hoped. I have always striven to do you justice, and, if I have fucked up, it was only because I was trying too hard. 
In all, I have indeed been happiest when you and I have been close ~~ at points where our paths veered toward each other, almost touching, or flickers of time in which they crossed. 
You were with me during each moment of this little story, just as you were with me at the Met in New York, when Mom and Dad took Edward and his future wife and me (as adults) to The Nutcracker, and, up on the mezzanine, I saw a costume display with ballerina mannequins that made my eyes moisten. I thought, of course, of the ballerinas back in McDonald’s when I was four, and how much I wanted to be they. Now, gazing at the mannequin physiques, I realized that ballerinas oftentimes have thin hips and wide shoulders ~~ and in a flash I believed that my own body might be able to fit in one day. 
We parted shortly thereafter, when Edward felt embarrassed because I was still early in my transition, and he noticed people staring. 
But we were back together for an instant a dozen years later ~~ at The Nutcracker once again, this time down in Irvine, when Edward was visiting with his now-wife and their children Isabel and Imma. 
I sped down the 5 as fast as I could, but I was still a quarter hour late and the ballet had already started. 
Imma lit up when she saw me through the darkness of the auditorium, and she crawled over everyone’s lap to sit on mine. She was four, just as I had been the first time. 
During intermission, Isabel and I dashed through the rain outside to grab the snack of peanuts and raisins that I had forgotten to bring in from my car. We made it back just in time. 
For the first few dances of the second Act, Isabel sat on my lap where Imma had been, eating peanuts and raisins one by one, and how poignant it was because this year might be the last one she would be comfortable there, for she was turning seven in a matter of months ~~ a second grader, already!! ~~ which would make her too big. I whispered that the Sugar Plum Fairy, who had just come onstage, was my favorite. 
As perfect as it all seemed, the moment I want to end with happened two Christmases before. 
Mom, who was visiting New York, had said it was time to tell the girls, and so I gathered them up and said I wanted to share a story about how I was born and how things had changed. 
An illustrated storybook version of The Nutcracker happened to be hanging over the edge of the coffee table nearby. I opened it and asked, “Do you know how the nutcracker was magically turned into a prince?” 
Isabel nodded; by now Imma had already grown distracted. 
“Well, that’s kind of what happened with me. I was born in a boy’s body, but it was a mistake and so I went to the doctor and he turned me into a girl.” 
Silence. 
Isabel wriggled her toes and squirmed on the couch at my side. 
Then she looked up at me: “Why is the story so short?” 
And with these words, made of the air we share here in life, crystalized into memory within your mind, a moment containing forever that will leave the earth with you when we can be together no more, I am and will remain, with love, the moment you ultimately choose ~~ 
Your Next Breath 
 
Los Angeles, California 
& New York, New York 
Winter – Summer 2016 
  
Acknowledgments 
Thank you to the first readers who graciously braved earlier drafts of this book: Catherine Ferguson, Beatrice Georgalidis, Kathy Handley, Jordan Smith, Monica Belvel Wegner, and my mom Carol Dolan. 
And, as always, thank you so much for reading. 
  
Appendix 
 
Passages in this book are inspired by works collected in Philosophies of Art and Beauty: Selected Readings in Aesthetics from Plato to Heidegger, edited by Albert Hofstadter and Richard Kuhns. 
 
Moment Two: Plato, Phaedrus. 
Moment Three: Plato, Symposium. 
Moment Four: Aristotle, Fear (from Rhetoric). 
Moment Five: Ibid. 
Moment Six: Introduction to Plotinus. 
Moment Seven: Plotinus, Ennead I, Sixth Tractate. 
Moment Eight: Ibid. 
Moment Nine: Ibid. 
Moment Ten: Ibid. 
Moment Eleven: Plotinus, Ennead V, Eighth Tractate. 
Moment Twelve: Introduction to St. Augustine. 
Moment Thirteen: St. Augustine, De Ordine, Chapter Fourteen, and Marsilio Ficino, Commentary on Plato’s Symposium, The Origin of Love Out of Chaos. 
Moment Fourteen: Marsilio Ficino, Commentary on Plato’s Symposium, The Origin of Love Out of Chaos. 
Moment Fifteen: Marsilio Ficino, Commentary on Plato’s Symposium, God Is Goodness, Beauty, and Justice, the Beginning, Middle, and End. 
Moment Sixteen: Ibid. 
Moment Seventeen: Ibid. 
Moment Eighteen: Immanuel Kant, Critique of Judgment, Analytic of the Beautiful, First Moment. 
Moment Nineteen: Ibid. 
Moment Twenty: Immanuel Kant, Critique of Judgment, Analytic of the Beautiful, Second Moment. 
Moment Twenty-One: Ibid. 
Moment Twenty-Two: Arthur Schopenhauer, The World as Will and Idea, Third Book, Second Aspect. 
Moment Twenty-Three: Ibid. 
Moment Twenty-Four: Friedrich Wilhelm Nietzsche, The Birth of Tragedy. 
Moment Twenty-Five: Ibid. 
Moment Twenty-Six: John Dewey, Art as Experience, Chapter I. 
Moment Twenty-Seven: Ibid. 
Moment Twenty-Eight: Ibid. 
Moment Twenty-Nine: Ibid., Chapter III. 
Moment Thirty: Ibid., Chapter XIV. 
Moment Thirty-One: Martin Heidegger, The Origin of the Work of Art, The Work and Truth. 


 
 
Transgender No More 
  
 
 
 
 
Zoe Dolan 2015 
  
“To my soul: 
Are you ever going to achieve goodness? 
Ever going to be simple, whole, and naked – 
as plain to see as the body that contains you?” 
 
– Marcus Aurelius, Meditations 
 
  
When Did You First Know? 
 
“I mean, you have tits now,” he said. 
At the beginning of 2015 – the “Year We Obsessed Over Identity,” as The New York Times observed – I disrobed during a video interview for the What’s Underneath project by Style Like U. The first question was: When did you first know? 
As in, When did you first know you were a woman? 
Would you believe me if I told you that I don’t know if I’ve ever known, since I don’t really know what a woman is, other than a concept that exists outside me – still, I know that I have felt like one, a woman I mean, yet the only way I first knew was from males? Will you suspend prejudgment long enough to entertain the possibility that gender can be so relative? 
To understand where I am coming from, consider how “When did you first know?” unfolds into pieces: the question presupposes that knowing anything about the self is possible, and that the words for apprehending and describing such knowledge can express the phenomenon at work beneath the surface. 
Take, for instance, the preliminary assumption that we may ever know anything about ourselves – especially when it comes to a realm that involves intimacy with others. In my case, looking back on the past, I see a history of romantic relationships, mostly with men, but also, here and there, with women, that have ended. Have we not been conditioned, at least to some degree, to measure success in life with the benchmark of committed love? If I have failed to attract and sustain an intimate relationship to the present, can I say that I know myself, or, for that matter, any aspect of the world? 
The self exists in relation to others. For me, like the question “When did you first know?” – or perhaps any ontological inquiry, for that matter – understanding the relativity of being starts with examining how assumptions affect preconceptions in the guise of truth. 
Think about what it means to be a member of a social group that comprises a minority of a minority. 
Does identification with others necessarily involve negotiating the terms of identity? As I will talk about later, there are any number of definitions for the word “transgender” depending on where you look – personally, I feel some may apply to me; others seem way too broad, or confusing and nonsensical, if not mercurial. 
When I asked my phone for a definition of transgender at the time of writing these words, this one popped up: “denoting or relating to a person whose self-identity does not conform unambiguously to conventional notions of male or female gender.” In other words – transgender people fall into a sort of third, or alternate, gender? 
Although that conception may have fit while I was transitioning – for instance, after I began “living as female” (whatever that means) but before surgery – the notion seems inappropriate now that my anatomy is female. 
Plus, there is a social dimension: I use female restroom and locker room facilities, others address me with “Ms.” out there in the world, I date men who identify as straight, I check the “female” box on forms, and so on. 
I transitioned in the early 2000s, before social and institutional media turned a spotlight on personal identity in general, and being transgender in particular. Whatever the reason for so much noise these days about gender identity – Was it gay marriage becoming a fait acommpli and leaving the LGBT movement in need of a new cause célèbre to rally around? The evolution of civil rights to include those of us who had been marginalized in the fight for equality? Or perhaps just plain old hunger for something that seemed new? – “transgender” has been repeated to the point where meaning is lost. 
At some point of expansion, the center implodes. So, what if – just as gravity operates in general relativity – the force that appears to be pulling us toward other people is simply a property of being human? 
It may be apostasy to wonder whether, as “transgender” continues moving toward an ever distant horizon, anyone can identify with the multifariousness of the word. It may also seem retrogressive – indeed, reactionary – to define the self, and specifically femininity, in relation to men, as I do in this essay. 
But the reality is that, even as society changes, its ingredients remain the same. And even if the world appears to yield something new under the sun, the principle of relativity holds as constant as being human ever was. 
  
Unbearably New Under the Sun 
 
A human’s sex is determined at the time of conception, however, sexual differentiation only occurs in the fourth month of pregnancy. The sex organs of a male fetus and a female fetus look identical before then. 
The realm of the spirit yields archetypes that can be just as unified. In The Unbearable Lightness of Being, for example, Milan Kundera recalled the myth from Plato’s Symposium that has borne upon romantic love for centuries: “People were hermaphrodites until God split them in two, and now all the halves wander the world over seeking one another. Love is the longing for the half of ourselves that we have lost.” 
Western literature has stoked this idealism through modern times in explorations of identity. No later than 1928, Virginia Woolf wrote about a sort of magical gender transition in Orlando: A Biography: “Orlando had become a woman — there is no denying it. But in every other respect, Orlando remained precisely as he had been. The change of sex, though it altered their future, did nothing whatever to alter their identity. Their faces remained, as their portraits prove, practically the same. His memory — but in future we must, for convention’s sake, say ‘her’ for ‘his,’ and ‘she’ for ‘he’— her memory then, went back through all the events of her past life without encountering any obstacle.” 
Gore Vidal sparked scandal four decades later in 1968 with his novel Myra Breckenridge, the tale of a woman in Hollywood who had “this scar where cock and balls should be.” Yet for all the book’s shock and titillation at the time, as in Orlando, Vidal tethered the phenomenon of changing sex to individual identity: “[i]t is impossible to sort out all one’s feelings on any given subject, and so perhaps it is wise never to take on any subject other than one’s own protean but still manageable self.” 
The first known sex change surgeries were performed in Berlin, Germany in the early 1930s, and advances followed after World War II. Dr. Harry Benjamin, an endocrinologist born in Germany who later practiced in San Francisco, California, wrote The Transsexual Phenomenon in 1966, and published standards of care for transsexual people in 1979. One of Dr. Benjamin’s patients was Christine Jorgensen, who underwent surgeries in Europe to become female during the early 1950s, and returned to fame in the United States as a blond bombshell. By the end of the millennium, awareness of treatment had spread: in 1987, for example, Ayatollah Komeini issued a fatwa sanctioning sex change surgery for transsexuals – and now Iran is apparently second only to Thailand in the number of such surgeries performed every year. 
Yet even as sex change surgeons have achieved proficiency in correcting flaws of nature – once, in a surreal conversation, a man claimed I was lying about being transgender after he saw my vulva – the transgender movement in the West has begun to reject a dichotomy from which the concept of changing sex necessarily arose: binary gender. 
An example of this shift is an article by M. Dru Levasseur, Esq., the Director of the Transgender Rights Project for the Lambda Legal Defense & Education Fund, Inc., entitled, “Gender Identity Defines Sex: Updating the Law to Reflect Modern Medical Science Is Key to Transgender Rights,” which appeared in the Summer 2015 issue of the Vermont Law Review. (Disclaimer: Levasseur and I are friends.) 
Of gender dysphoria, the name for the condition that afflicts transgender people, Levasseur observed, in line with a conventional dual gender approach, “The availability of a diagnostic classification serves to facilitate appropriate treatment, which alters the mutable primary and secondary sex characteristics to match the core self-identity, rather than alter the fixed, core gender identity.” 
But Levasseur went on to posit a theory that would redefine the presumptions upon which society’s understanding of sex is based: “If the goal for transgender people is to provide for the most self-determination under the law, we must go to the root of the reason for ‘changing’ one’s sex. . . . Transition is not altering one’s sex, but affirming one’s underlying gender identity. It is not done to evade or to be someone you are not; rather, it is to realize who you deeply are.” 
And the result? “Sex is multifaceted,” Levasseur concluded, “and of the multiple factors that determine sex, gender identity must be given primary weight, as the single most important biological determinant of sex.” 
Pause and reflect on that sentence. 
Does Levasseur’s theory imply that divisions of the gender binary dissipate upon scrutiny, and, regardless of the body, maleness and femaleness inevitably broaden to the point where they meld into a third gender? 
  
Close Encounters of a Third Gender 
 
At the beginning of the 2015 school year, Harvard University announced that students would be able to choose from a list of gender-neutral pronouns such as “ze,” “hir,” and “hirs.” 
While advocates cheered this development as progressivism, multiple genders are as old as the ages. In South Asia, for example, hijras – people whose identity falls outside binary gender divisions – have existed in society for centuries. (In modern times, at least some of the stigma imposed by British colonialism has been partially reversed, and now Bangladesh, India and Pakistan legally recognize hijras as members of a “third gender.”) 
Similarly, a number of indigenous North American cultures have incorporated “two-spirited” people – individuals whose spirits comprise both male and female essences – into their tribes throughout recorded history. The Zuni tribe in the American Southwest revered two-spirited members with spiritual and artistic roles, and their two-spirited representative We’Wha traveled to Washington, D.C., where she represented her tribe and met President Grover Cleveland, in 1886.  
The list goes on – PBS produced a map of gender-diverse cultures around the globe, which is available online. Of genders embodying both male and female spirits, the introduction to the map notes, “Most Western societies have no direct correlation for this tradition, nor for the many other communities without strict either/or conceptions of sex, sexuality, and gender. Worldwide, the sheer variety of gender expression is almost limitless.” 
For me – a transsexual whose identity revolves at least in part around a gender binary – whether the refraction of multiplicity in the gender spectrum is a good thing depends on the extent to which acceptance follows. Unfortunately, challenging the gender binary can create unease that the transgender movement only exacerbates – with consequences to transgender people who do not necessarily identify as a third, or other, gender. 
Indeed, in her Op-Ed for The New York Times “What Makes a Woman?,” journalist, former professor and filmmaker Elinor Burkett identified what she considers to be an undercurrent of indignation among regular women with regard to transgender people: “Many women I know, of all ages and races, speak privately about how insulting we find the language trans activists use to explain themselves.” 
The resentment seems based on erosion of exclusivity in the gender dichotomy: “For me and many women, feminist and otherwise,” Burkett explained, “one of the difficult parts of witnessing and wanting to rally behind the movement for transgender rights is the language that a growing number of trans individuals insist on, the notions of femininity that they’re articulating, and their 
disregard for the fact that being a woman means having accrued certain experiences, endured certain indignities and relished certain courtesies in a culture that reacted to you as one.” 
Political correctness can present a pitfall in the discourse here, and the vigor with which the transgender movement discourages openness may broaden the chasm between who we are as individuals and our image as a group. In June of 2014, for instance, there was Katie Couric’s interview with actress Laverne Cox. Couric raised the topic of sex change surgery, which Cox deflected to other issues facing transgender people: “The preoccupation with transition and surgery objectifies trans people. And then we don’t get to really deal with the real lived experiences.” 
My heart sinks as I read Cox’s words even now. The agony of living in the wrong body was my real lived experience, and it defined me as a transgender person. Surgery was medically necessary to my realization as a human being; without the operation I would not be who I am. 
Regardless of what anyone says, there is no escaping that some people – if not many or even most – would classify human beings as male or female based on anatomy. Differences in bodies are real. So are the impressions of others. Is it really our place to claim that how they see things is wrong? 
  
In the Male Gaze 
 
We saw each other for the first time in two decades at our 20th high school reunion. “I mean, you have tits now,” he said. 
What I wouldn’t give to understand – from his perspective – how the change in me changed things. 
Adam played on the football team, and was about as all-American as they come. By our sophomore year, he had already grown big and bulky, and, once we were juniors, he was a stud. Just as vital as the physique he sported, his mind shone with interest in lots of areas, while his affinity for the television version of gay author Armistad Maupin’s Tales of the City tantalized me with the possibility that he might be receptive to my crush. I spent a whole semester of history class waiting for an opportunity to present itself – until finally I just showed up at his house in the middle of the night, knocked on his bedroom window, and, after a half hour of dithering around, managed to offer up the burden of a secret from my heart to his. 
Let me back up. I went to two 20th high school reunions because I graduated high school in three years. As in other aspects of life – yes, like my gender – I was in both classes at various points, but in a way a member of neither. 
Anxiety about the first reunion had lifted once I saw a number of my friends at a memorial service for one of our group, a couple of years before. We lost a source of light when she passed away, but we regained memories when the loss brought us back together like boomerangs. 
In the car to the airport after the service, one of the three guys I was with – all of whom I had known since at least seventh grade, and two since elementary school – asked who had changed the most. I lost out despite my certainty that a gender transition would carry the day, when they all agreed that, in fact, I had not changed at all. 
I gazed out the window at the San Francisco Bay, thinking about how all three of these guys had been married with children for years at that point. Perhaps they were right: I was the same solo person I had always been. 
For more than a decade up until then, I had believed that changing my sex changed me more than it did: I relished the first time I dove into a swimming pool after surgery and felt my body – every square inch of it – free underwater. I clung to my mom’s observation, during a conversation about boy trouble in my early 30s, that I “just don’t understand men.” There was the admission from a law school classmate that she liked Zoe a whole lot more than the male person I’d lived as, 
and the remark from a family friend that I was smiling in all my pictures now, which she couldn’t remember me doing since I was a little kid. And there were all my new paintings of boyfriends and me together in moments of joy, whereas my artwork as a teenager was of other people, separated by the distance of emotions, and alone. 
These changes were real.  
Weren’t they? 
Any traces of doubt had dissolved by the time the second reunion rolled around. 
Following the main event, we coalesced at the childhood home of another former football player, Adam’s teammate, whose parents were out of town just like so many weekends we ended up there during high school. 
In the kitchen around midnight, finally the chance came to thank Adam for taking my disclosure of feelings so gracefully, and with a maturity that exceeded his then 16-and-a-half years, so long ago. 
He remembered our conversation, he said, and was glad that my transition had worked out. 
I smiled, placed my hand on his shoulder blade for an instant, and let the moment pass into what had been. 
On the ride back to the house out in the countryside where four girlfriends and I were staying the night, one of them, a friend I had not seen since graduation, looked over at me. 
“Why the tears?” she asked. 
I explained how Adam remembering a conversation so important to my life really touched me, and, with a poignancy I struggled to bear, how speaking to him all these years later caused me to wonder whether, had I been born in the right body, with not just tits as he noticed now, but with everything inside and out where it was supposed to be from the very beginning, he might have liked me back – which, in turn, led me to think about how everything would have been different, life itself. 
Mercifully she did not feed my self-pity. 
“I can relate,” she said. Then she told me about how, when we were in high school, she felt guys did not see her for who she was, either – self-confidence took time. 
I took tissue paper to bed in anticipation of crying myself to sleep. Instead I drifted away with the consolation that being transgender only drives me apart from others if I let it; at the heart of identity is human experience, which is something we all share. 
Still, a sense of longing lingered the next day, and the next – and then it rose to the surface again less than three weeks later. 
Female Sperm 
 
The e-mail – from a man I had just met – asked whether, prior to surgery, I had preserved my sperm so I could have children with my own genes. Although my inability to bear children has impacted my romantic life even more than being transgender has, this e-mail was the first time that question arose since I had transitioned over a dozen years prior. 
Back then, I ran a gauntlet to prove I was transsexual: I traveled over to the East Bay from San Francisco once a week for psychotherapy with a gender specialist. I registered with a transgender care clinic, where I underwent screening – and further counseling – to make sure. Meanwhile, my supervising nurse practitioner thought it a good idea to wait until finishing my spring law school exams before starting hormone replacement therapy, and on and on… 
Until finally the day came. Unable to delay a second longer, I swallowed my first estrogen pill on Market Street – injections would come later, after my body acclimated – right outside the pharmacy. 
One component of the counseling and therapy included acknowledging that, after a while, I would no longer be able to procreate. Over time, I would produce less and less semen, and I would become sterile. 
After surgery, of course, my body would stop producing any semen or testosterone at all. 
Thank God. 
There was nothing I wanted to rid myself of more than the errors of nature that made my body male. 
Still, my counselor at the clinic had presented an option: before starting estrogen, I could contact a sperm bank and freeze my sperm. 
You know, if I wanted to. Just in case. 
My stomach turned. I thought I would vomit. 
I shudder and feel sick when I think about the idea to this day. 
In elementary school, before the realities of life and making a living encroached on dreams, I imagined living in a nice big house with a family of six kids – three boys and three girls. Then, in my adolescent years and early 20s, as I began dating men, I started thinking about adoption as a possibility. By the time I reached my late 30s – where I loiter as I write these words – I could count two regrets at the heart of it all: not sticking with the first guy I ever slept with when I was 16 years 
old (such a tender young man!), and not transitioning sooner – the next worst thing to being born and growing up in the wrong body altogether. 
For a number of years I hoped I would meet someone special who could see past this defect to the fulfillment of giving a home to one or more children in need of parents and a family. My dad is adopted, as are my aunt and my sister-in-law. Adoption always seemed natural to me; I was taught that my grandma was just as much my grandma as she was my father’s mother – much like the exchange students who lived with my mother’s family were my Swiss aunt and uncle, and their children my cousins. Bonds of family made no distinction. 
All of which is why I ended up so unprepared for dating as an adult woman – especially in New York, where the male-to-female ratio favors men – at a time in life when the window was closing on marriage and kids. 
The first guy I dated for any period of time after surgery was really cute. We met at the Met and lounged around in the Egypt room as I remembered that faraway country where I had started my transition years ago. 
Sometimes the prison of being transsexual makes reality feel like someone else’s life – not just when I remember the past, but when a man sees me there still. 
Sure enough, that first post-surgery boyfriend ended our relationship a couple months after it began, within minutes of disclosure. 
He wanted to have children of his own, he explained. He always had. 
Just like me. 
Time went on and a decade of variations on the same theme followed – until one evening at dusk I found myself on the stoop of the Russian-Turkish Baths on East 10th Street, chatting with a friend I’d known from the saunas and steam rooms downstairs for two or three years. He talked about how his relationship with his girlfriend was changing, and happened to mention that he could not impregnate a woman due to a condition from birth. 
Afterward, my mind wandered to how life might have unfolded had I met and fallen in love with a man who, in his own way, could understand. 
I left behind any part of me that might have fathered a child because it would have felt like someone else doing so: I want to be with a man, not be one. 
 
  
Are Transsexuals Transgender? 
 
If I am a lousy feminist for admitting that men first made me feel female, I would be even more remiss as a humanist in trying to convince you otherwise. 
Where I will claim feminism, so be it at the risk of ostracism, is in challenging the taboo on talking about sex change surgery. I prefer the term “sex change surgery” over the politically correct “sex reassignment surgery,” since, when I look down, I see a body that was changed, not just “reassigned.”  Moreover, the euphemism – misnomer, even – conceals a question that the transgender movement seeks to dissuade us from asking: Are transsexuals transgender? 
By transsexual, I mean people who undergo surgery to change their sex to match their gender. By transgender, I mean – well, what, exactly, does “transgender” mean these days – can anyone know? 
Webster’s, GLAAD and Google all have different definitions of “transgender.” Wikipedia takes three paragraphs to define the term – into abstraction. 
One thing I do know is that, before I had surgery, I assumed a stance of militancy about gender. I got angry when I was “misgendered,” or when others expressed confusion or ignorance about anything transgender. 
The reason why was that I had something to prove. I did not, despite my protestations to the contrary, feel fully female yet. 
And rather than face the truth, I unleashed this insecurity through frustration with others for failing to understand what I myself failed to bring to life: my own identity. 
Prior to surgery I lived in shame. I walked hunched forward, heavy on my feet, instead of wearing life like a summer dress and opening my heart to the world. I changed under a towel in the women’s locker room. And I sought out men who reinforced my feeling of less than, while I pushed away compassion. 
Going to bed with guys who were into pre-op transgender women was really weird. Sure, I appreciated the chance to be with someone, to kiss him, and to be touched. Yet their sexuality unnerved me: fixation on the one remnant of maleness on my body began to cause nausea just as the idea of fathering had. After all, I did not gender transition because everything was wonderful; I went through it because living in the wrong body was the suffocation of hell. 
Surgery made a difference in everything for me. 
A few months after my operation, during a discussion about identity and relationships between the sexes, my dad said, “You’ve graduated from being transgender. You’re not trans-anything now. ‘Trans’ has to do with movement and change, and you’re done changing. You’re a woman.” 
The problem is, some men did not see it that way. (Nor do they still.) 
“So, when do you think I should talk about the subject?” I asked. 
On the one hand, I explained, I want to give men a chance to know me before my past drives them away. On the other, I should protect myself from falling for someone incapable of falling back. 
“You have to figure that out,” my dad said, suggesting that the conversation should happen before either person starts to feel emotions for the other. 
So the upshot is that I am no longer transgender…until I am again. The point at which it happens varies in each instance, and there is no telling whether the difference will matter. 
There is, at least, one thing that remains constant: the effect of being loved. 
And here is where I will be a lousy feminist. 
In love, all the characteristics of the experience that you would recognize come into play – joy, passion, desire, infatuation, and comfort in the world. Yet for me there is another component: getting to feel like a woman. 
I mean, I have tits now – I grew them myself. And they have indeed changed things, even if femininity is more than the outside and I am the same person within. After all, a different body attracts different people: I am straight, pretty much, and, as far as I know, so are the men I date. 
Except for young adulthood (when my face remained androgynous and I wore long lair), I spent my life up until my mid-20s being identified by people as male. I moved about in male bathrooms and locker rooms, where others behaved as if there were no females around, and, in romance and the bedroom, all of my boyfriends were either gay or bisexual. 
The world I experience is no longer the same now, which brings me back to the question of when I first knew I was female: Would you believe me if I told you that I don’t know if I’ve ever known, since I don’t really know what a woman is, other than a concept that exists outside me – still, I know that I have felt like one, a woman that is, yet the way I know is from males? 
I confess: how else can I have any idea how a woman feels, except through the sense of being desired, body and soul, by a man? 
Intimacy after surgery has at times been a lantern in the dark as I swam through the night of transition across the river in between me and whom I could be. I might have grown lost without the men who helped along the way. They saw me as female before I did, really; they saw beyond 
transgender – to me. And there, a place of potentiality, they made love with the woman they perceived. 
In The Meaning of Human Existence, biologist Edward O. Wilson wrote, “The stories that compose the conscious mind cannot be taken away from the mind’s physical neurobiological system, which serves as script writer, director, and cast combined. The self, despite the illusion of its independence created in the scenarios, is part of the anatomy and physiology of the body.” 
Changing my physical form to match my soul made a difference – the only question is to what degree. 
  
A Woman of Men 
 
Almost two millennia ago the Roman emperor Marcus Aurelius wrote in his Meditations, “Look how tiring it is – this cacophony we live in. Enough to make you say to death, ‘Come quickly. Before I start to forget myself, like them.’” 
The noise continues, as everything, and nothing, continue to change into the same all over again. 
Burkett began her Op-Ed “What Makes a Woman?” with an interrelated question: “Do women and men have different brains?” She recounted the story of Lawrence H. Summers, a former president of Harvard who was excoriated when he suggested that male and female brains were indeed different. Then the piece turned to Caitlyn Jenner, who, Burkett wrote, was “lionized” for bravery, and even for progressivism, because she defined her femininity based on that very assumption: “My brain is much more female than it is male,” Jenner told interviewer Diane Sawyer. 
Such certainty eludes me. I lay no claim on knowing how a woman thinks, since “a woman” is an abstraction, and, in any event, I believe one may never know oneself in totality, let alone the mind of another. 
Awareness of limitations opens up the possibilities they contain, however. Another observation from Aurelius makes the point: “Not to know what the world is is to be ignorant of where you are. Not to know why it’s here is to be ignorant of who you are. And what is.” 
When I say that I only knew that I felt like a woman through the prism of being with men, what I mean is: that sensation is how the feeling began. 
Austrian author Hermann Broch’s description of a young woman losing her virginity in his novel The Guiltless springs to mind: “And there follows (after a little awkwardness and a little pain, but with the gravity of the self-evident) the primordial surprise, the eternal surprise which – even when it does not, as now, occur for the first time, but has become usual and customary – is always irradiated with the shine of the first time and must always, invariably, come as a surprise: the sinking, the fitting, of two human bodies into one another.” 
I’ve quoted this passage elsewhere, and there is no hiding why. For me, Broch’s unity mirrors Plato’s ideal of love, and both reflect the reality of being human: we experience ourselves in relation to others. 
In my own life, the promise land on the other side of changing sex lay beyond dictates about my identity, my gender, and any ideas, thoughts or feelings I wished to impose. Being myself means 
acceptance from friends, family, and society – for who any of us can be is just one human being among humanity. 
Our history reveals that whatever seems new under the sun may amount to no more than a happenstance of perception at any moment. As Burkett observed, “Women like me are not lost in false paradoxes; we were smashing binary views of male and female well before most Americans had ever heard the word ‘transgender’ or used the word ‘binary’ as an adjective.” 
She is right: other women did come first. And we are all of us their children. 
Still, identifying as transgender can make a demand on people that distinguishes this identity from others. Even though I present myself to a potential intimate partner as I am right now, I nevertheless recognize that he could view me otherwise in light of my past. Attraction between us might, for him, spark a question about manhood – or even the nature of his own sexuality. Intimacy asks for patience in receptivity to the sinking, the fitting, of two human souls into a moment together. 
Now, could it be that – in such an instant of union – maleness and femaleness unfeather into their essence, somewhere in between both genders and any others, a merging of gender expression as in the undifferentiated body we all once had? 
It’s all relative. 
“Don’t ever forget these things: The nature of the world. My nature. How I relate to the world. What proportion of it I make up. That you are part of nature, and no one can prevent you from speaking and acting in harmony with it, always,” Aurelius said. 
I may be a woman of men, but I am a woman still – and distilled – as we vanish into one. 
The feeling then is transgender no more. 
 
Los Angeles, California 
Fall 2015 




 
 
Jump 
 
from Suicidal Depression 
to Skydiving 
and Reality’s Edge 
 
Zoe Dolan 
  
 
 
for 
my skybrothers 
– especially Christian and Kenny  
 
 
Zoe Dolan 2019. All rights reserved. 
 
Cover image captured by: Rene Diaz. Used with permission. 
  
 
 
“The pleasure of all things increases by the same danger that should deter it.” 
– Seneca 
  
Prologue 
 
I stood there, on the edge, leaning over. 
The rust-colored mountains, into the tall rock faces of which the ancient city of Petra is carved, rose from the Jordanian desert, massive spurts of earth-blood that once gushed from our planet’s core, then solidified. 
This unimaginable other world’s network of gorges streaked through time and space in the vastness below, and, atop the vantage point where I found myself, having hiked up from the sandy basin floor to a ridge so high it felt like the sky, red sandstone swirled out into an almost Martian landscape of dreams – as if cosmic fingernails had ripped apart earth’s surface, and left chasms as scars. 
I was nearing the end of a six-week trip. I’d landed in Athens, then ventured around the Aegean Sea and down to Crete before heading over to Rhodes and up to Istanbul and through central Turkey into Syria. After which I detoured over to Beirut – the late 1990s, remember, were back when Syria remained accessible and Lebanon had just become so – and subsequently, gasp, finally, made my way down here to southern Jordan, that is, in one last mini-sojourn before Tel Aviv, where I’d catch my breath and a flight home. 
I felt exhausted, and alone. 
At age 23, nothing seemed to be working quite right. I couldn’t manage a decent relationship, I was completely fucked up anyway, and this goddamn depression – which had been clouding over me for a decade now, ever since I’d started developing as a human being both intellectually and emotionally, since right before puberty, really – wouldn’t lift. 
You know. 
We’ve heard it all before. 
In my own case, however, I knew – with a conviction that has proven correct over the course of the last two decades – that the sadness never would go away, that this cloud would always remain. 
Sure, there would be rays of sunshine from time to time, often whole days or even months or years of light. 
But, the darkness would always be there, waiting. 
And, one day, it would drift back overhead. 
And gather strength and darken further. 
And become too much. 
So, I might as well just keep leaning. 
And leaning. 
And leaning. 
Until I fell over. 
Into nothingness. 
And, you know what, I would have. 
Except that, at the very instant, the instant of eternity right before I almost slipped away forever – a gust came blasting up the canyon wall. 
The force held me there, suspended, for a second, before I stepped back.  
Boy Meets Girl 
 
Of course, I remain skeptical and everything, but oh shit is he cute. Also, he’s smart in a farm boy-sexy way – and a carpenter… with those hands. OMG – those hands. 
Did I mention he’s two days younger than I? We’re about to turn 40 in like six months. 
We go out a bunch. He kisses me in the backyard under the lemon tree, beneath whatever stars the Los Angeles sky can muster. 
Eventually I tell him I used to be a boy, too. 
He’s really nice about it – nicer than almost any of them has been before – but, in the end, it’s the end. 
We become friends, do things together, talk. We’re very close. I depend on him. His voice always soothes me. 
Months pass. 
Somehow both of us end up tumbling into cryptocurrency around the same time – April of 2017 – right when shit’s really popping off. 
But then, unexpectedly, at the first Ethereal Summit – an overly intense blockchain slash community slash money slash art slash tech thing – I break down inside and ache. 
I call him to say we can’t interact anymore. 
Neither of us needs any explanation that it’s because I’m still in love with him. More so than ever. 
Fuck. 
Every time is the same, I think, walking to the subway in Brooklyn. 
Every time but this time. 
This time, somehow, is different. 
I dissolve into a puddle of tears. 
I cry so hard, and for so long, that my brain feels like it’s spinning into the ground, and hurts. 
The crying goes on for days. 
I start making plans. 
* 
I experienced my first – and, so far, thank God, only – hospitalization when I was 18. 
The medication made me fall over in the snow on the sidewalk and I didn’t want to bother with getting my blood levels tested and all the rest. So I threw it out and white-knuckled myself afloat once more. 
Darkness – that cloud – has hovered since, whether directly above or on the horizon, all the same, it’s up there, threatening to come back anytime, as erratic and impulsive as mountain weather. 
You understand. I know you do. 
As expected, many days, many months are indeed better than others – yet, I have noticed that the dips, over the years, have grown deeper, the longer I’ve spent alone. 
Like those valleys in Petra, the floors of which come closer and grow further away, simultaneously, through a parallax that tricks the mind. 
And, my God, the years, the years! So many revolutions around the sun – so many, many years. 
Man, more years have passed since those white knuckles than I ever expected to live. And I’m “only” in my early 40s – probably older by the time you read this. 
I know life is precious. It’s just I lost sight of how and have only begun to find out again. 
* 
You see, I’d never made plans before. 
I’d thought about it, sure, but those previous attempts – perhaps “accident that I kept encouraging to go awry until I ended up in the hospital” and “other accident on the edge of a cliff, where the wind blew” would be a better way to put it – well, they were on a whim. 
Now was different. 
How can I make this one look inadvertent, so my mom won’t be devastated? How can I arrange my affairs to leave everything clean and clear for my brother and his wife and their girls? How will I make sure it works, and I die? How can I – for fucking once on this earth – do something right? 
And yet, I also wonder: Is this all there would ever be? 
Is there really no other way? 
I mean, instead of giving up, what if I were to give it one more year? 
Just one year – one year – and see what happens then. 
You know. I know you do.  
 
 
One Year 
  
 
 
“Life can be much broader once you discover one simple fact, and that is: Everything around you that you call life was made up by people that were no smarter than you.” 
– Steve Jobs  
Month One: The Change 
 
One day, about two weeks in, I would have missed waking up rested for the first time in a long while. 
The nights that sleep has restored me have been few and far between, recently – I just cannot shake the worry that I am missing something while asleep – but, that problem appears to be resolving. I am starting to dream again – both in conscious life and subconsciously, I think. It has become increasingly difficult to tell a difference. Nor do I really wish to anymore; I would prefer an existence that melds the two. 
We’ll make our way to the dreams, eventually. I swear it to you. 
* 
That guy can’t possibly be the Sun-bleached Blond Canadian Pilot – he’s too old. The Sun-bleached Blond Canadian Pilot isn’t so old yet. 
Is he? 
He must’ve sensed me peering in because he looked up from the bike he was tinkering with, suspended at chest level on a mount. When our eyes made contact, he motioned for me to come inside – perhaps he thought I was a customer or something – but I just smiled and shook my head, ever so slightly, and clicked my cycling shoes into the pedals and rode away. 
Was that he? 
It couldn’t be. 
Was it? 
I rode a few blocks downhill to a little bench overlooking the Hudson River. I’d sat here so many times before, listening to music from the past and crying about lost time. 
And thus I submerged into memories – many of which I’ve written about elsewhere – and drifted away: You know, just as the Sun-bleached Blond Canadian Pilot and I did together that one afternoon yesteryear we spent on his boat, you remember, when I swam topless and borrowed his t-shirt and almost mistook everything for normal. 
At which point my phone signaled a text. 
Wouldn’t you know it, he was in the bike shop just now. The guy I’d seen and the picture in my mind of him collapsed into a bunch of years, and then expanded outward until they blew apart and singed the edges where I wanted the world to meet reality, like canyons in the sky. 
Oh my. 
Would he still seem sexy up close? 
Less than five minutes later, I perched on a stool near the cash register, watching him finish up whatever he was doing – wrapping new grip around the handlebars or something – and trying to generate stuff to talk about, while endeavoring to relax into the flow, I guess, because, you know, what the hell, who cares. 
The bike shop owner – a tall and thin gentleman ambling toward his twilight – dipped into our conversation here and there, providing a respite in the lulls. 
Outside, the sky had darkened, and it had begun to sprinkle. 
Side-story: Once upon a time, there was a Persian Cutie I crushed out on at the weekly spiritual gathering I used to go to in the West Village. I recall very little about him except that I wanted him to touch me all over and, one summer night, when I was wearing a polka dotted dress and heels, he exclaimed that riding my bike home in the rain would be fun! 
Back to the moment: holy fuck. A dash across Manhattan is one thing. But… 
The ride all the way back to New York City – at least until I can catch the subway on the other side of the George Washington Bridge – is going to suck ass… 
And, did the temperature drop? 
Maybe an Uber would be better… 
Damn. The Sun-bleached Blond Canadian Pilot didn’t bite: He wasn’t going to offer a ride, apparently. And I wasn’t going to ask, not outright. 
It really was going to suck ass, riding twenty miles in the chilly downpour. 
Le sigh. 
At which point the bike shop owner volunteered a suggestion. 
I cocked my head at him. 
You think I should cycle twenty miles wearing a garbage bag? 
Just watch. Everyone else on the road will wish they had one. 
As he cut holes for my head and arms in this soon-to-be cycling poncho, I remembered something else he’d recommended years and years and years ago, when I had stopped by for a spare inner tube on a cold day: stuffing newspaper under my jersey. 
Newspaper works great as a windbreaker – haven’t you ever wondered why homeless people sleep all wrapped up in it? 
My mind was already elsewhere as the Sun-bleached Blond Canadian Pilot bent down to hug me goodbye. 
I just love when they bend down and scoop me up like that. 
Just love it. 
Zoe! Pay attention. 
Okay, I’d get some of the free local papers from the bakery just down the street – that’s what I’d do. Perfect. 
Yeah, okay, I’d be ridiculous covered in newspaper and a black garbage bag, speeding through New Jersey back to New York City, in the rain. 
But, I’d be dry and warm… 
And, suddenly, there it was: Oh shit, of all these rides home from Nyack over the last decade – there must be many many many dozens, probably a couple hundred by now – this one I’ll fucking remember. 
* 
Yeah so the thing about the first month was doing things just because. 
A ride through the rain – and, more so, the enjoyment of it. 
A jaunt up to the Metropolitan Museum of Art. (And, along the way, a detour into some church I’d passed a thousand times but had never entered: a portal, it turned out, where pews marched solemnly over checkerboard flooring toward the alter, which reared upward into a dome tiled in gold, lights shining overhead and filling the air with resplendence, like feelings in a room of a house I’d inhabited for decades, albeit removed as if by wormhole to Elsewhere.) 
A schlep up to the roof of my apartment in the East Village to gaze at moonlight shining metallically through silvery clouds. (Would the whiteness of the moon have glistened any more brightly, if I had been with someone? Would I have seen the tremors of God’s hands any less violently? Lie to me, it’s okay, I promise.) 
A return to that weekly spiritual gathering over in the West Village I told you about. (Sadly, the Persian Cutie remained long faded into the past without a trace, but, happily, I did get to see another man: the Mysterious Afghani, whose obsidian eyes all but shattered me to pieces. Oh, hells yeah! He had recently divorced and the energy that had always welled up between us could finally brim.) 
You know, those types of just because lifedreams – the ones that leave us feeling like we just averted a car accident.  
Month Two: Noticing 
 
There was one Sunday evening, back in 2005, you may recall, just after I had returned to New York via Egypt (where I’d been living) from Thailand (where I’d had sex change surgery), and I dove into a swimming pool, in the right body, for the first time. 
It was water polo practice, and, even though the dead of January raged outside, cold as a helluva bitch, here, inside the great big heated indoors swimming pool arena, the water enveloped me cool and refreshing, cascading over every square millimeter of my skin, washing away any trace of shame forever. 
“I saw the angel in the marble and carved until I set him free.” 
That hokey quote attributed to Michelangelo sure is something. 
Isn’t it? 
Anyway, where I’m going with this is that, one day during the second month, there I was, over a dozen years after that frigid winter day in New York, at water polo practice once again, only this time on a pleasant early summer morning out at the pool in Sherman Oaks, near Los Angeles, signing the ball that a stereotypically sexy Italian had purchased as a wedding present for our team captain and his fiancé, and I was like, I love that we get to live in an era when the stereotypically sexy Italian organizes this gift for his gay teammates. 
Would I have noticed before? Probably. 
But, would I have noticed myself noticing? 
And noticed, also, how much the act of noticing infused the entire fucking world with hope, exploding into brightness that lasered outward to the end of time with beauty’s vigor, as the angels of all our interactions (yours and mine and everyone else’s) danced on tiptoes within and atop light beams, laughing, buoyant, gleaming joyful fury, hand in hand and wing against wing, tumbling together, just like we will in The Sky and I, which is coming. 
It’s coming. 
Like the dreams. 
I promise. 
* 
Just not yet. 
Right so the thing about the second month was how the noticing began to change things. 
It would still be some time yet – not long, but, even so – before I could see how I myself was changing, how the act of writing, every morning, “I would have missed…” – followed by the experiences that make life more than worth living, that render what might otherwise be unbearable into something not only bearable but perhaps wonderful somehow, or, on occasion, beyond transcendent – 
How the mere act of writing was engaging me, in life, as I had never been before, anchored to magic in the world. 
* 
A guy in the airplane who reminded me to grab the hoodie that had been so, so hard to find, which had required a drive out to Pasadena and then further along the 210 to I don’t even know where, like Monrovia or something. 
A taxi driver only a few minutes afterward, whose sweetness of tone caressed the air like a million chameleons, soft as satin, surrounding me. 
A trip for work out to jail in Buttfuck, New Jersey – past the sewage treatment plant which became all I could think about for several minutes, my God, the stench – because I’ve spent my adult life wondering where the seeker who I started out as went to, and where to find her, and now, in the bowels of nowhere, here was an adventure popping up, just like new experiences did when I was young and fresh to the world. 
A warm afternoon punctuated by a guy probably half my age checking out my legs whilst I sat reading in Washington Square Park. Mmm… 
And, surprisingly, another afternoon spent in front of the computer. Because, after all, the pleasure of work can be a savior, as Mom often likes to remind me: Of everything else you could be doing right now, is there really anything you’d rather it be? 
* 
There was also a day when I would have missed Crystal Cove – a seaside California state park secreted along the coast north of Laguna Beach – giving me a tree bath in the basin of the canyon I always run down, and back up again, whenever I’m visiting Mom, that is, unless rain closes the trails and breaks my heart. 
For, if I had not been there that particular morning, I would have missed the sounds of crackling branches and bird chirps and leaves rustling in the breeze, as I wondered what the crypto markets were doing and then let go. 
And then the drive through town to Thousand Steps Beach, and the sand relinquishing to the ridges of my feet and bulging between my toes, and the invigoration that comes from walking into the ocean and body surfing and curling up like a potato bug within a wave – yeah I kind of knew where I was but also I lost track. 
And the men and their chests and arms and faces and legs and feet – creatures that walk the earth for what amounts to the blink of an eye, before disappearing forever. 
And, much later, the thought –  amidst a conversation over dinner with Mom later that day – how a human being can be an accident. The entirety of a human life – perhaps any human life, for that matter – an accident that expulses a living being. 
Maybe we are all accidents.  
Month Three: Daring for More 
 
One morning, I would have missed overhearing some random guy, as I jogged past him on my daily run, say, with a buoyancy in his voice, to whomever he was with, “How would everything need to be if you wanted to look back and say those were the best three years of my life?” 
* 
A few years ago, in 2013, I emailed Elyn Saks, a professor at USC Law School, to thank her for sharing her personal struggle living with schizophrenia, and some findings from a study of high-functioning people born with the condition, in a piece she wrote for the New York Times: “’Every person has a unique gift or unique self to bring to the world,’ said one of our study’s participants. She expressed the reality that those of us who have schizophrenia and other mental illnesses want what everyone wants: in the words of Sigmund Freud, to work and to love.” 
What strikes me even harder with the passage of time is Elyn’s observation – which harmonized the changes that this project had begun effectuating within me by the third month – that “the seeds of creative thinking may sometimes be found in mental illness, and people underestimate the power of the human brain to adapt and to create.” 
And, so, here we were, five years later, wouldn’t you know it, when there came a day on which, if I had been dead, I would have missed meeting Elyn, and getting to thank her, in person. 
She was giving a talk for a continuing legal education seminar at the Federal Defender’s Office in Los Angeles. I attended, alone, surrounded by others who had chosen indigent criminal defense as a career for the same reasons: love of our Constitution and devotion to individual liberty. 
She remembered my email. 
* 
How curious: Weeding away what I could do without and keeping suicide as an option rendered each day so terribly exquisite. 
If we could explain life, would it be the same? 
If we saw rainbows everywhere? 
Later I would see one – a rainbow – somewhere that would change absolutely everything. 
Back in month three, however, steeped in a quotidian assembly line of days, I probably would not have missed the loneliness that Big Little Lies ground into me, what with those various couples interacting and having sex like normal human beings and all that shit. 
You see – I know you do – I had yet to learn about finding happiness vicariously from others, in their joy. 
But, not gonna obfuscate, I would very much have missed watching a character in the show fantasize about shooting her rapist in the face when he tried to break into her house, and then go to sleep with a gun under her pillow – because that is what I secretly wish I could do to my assailant, so I might never have to fucking think about him again, ever. 
* 
There is so much I want to share with you. Including this: when Elyn Saks spoke about getting married in her late 40s – and just not understanding the phenomenon of dating, and feeling like an alien whenever she would see couples out in the world up until then, I would have missed these fantasies murmuring inside me. 
I probably also would have missed the sudden impulse to sell my crypto before the inevitable market crash, but then saying, Oh, fuck it, because, if it all goes to shit, I can just blow my brains out when this project ends, so who cares. 
And, thus, there I was: a slightly different person – somewhat more skeptical, cynical, calculating, defensive, less trusting, more aware, and sadder, for sure – but also somehow happier, and erstwhile lighter: I was now a little more independent and therefore less caring, and certainly hungrier for risk, greedier, yet far more satisfied with what I have, you understand, further inclined to value my life as it is today, while also daring for more. 
* 
A goodbye kiss from a Sexy Colombian whose skin felt like a dolphin’s, only with stubble – followed by a goodbye hug from the Grasshopper Taco Guy – at the beach after water polo practice. 
A tiny lizard on a pillow atop the Japanese futon where I sit and read over my morning coffee. 
A mass of human bodies in the pool at my Dear Baby-faced Lawyer Friend’s birthday party – and the physicality of them against me, all radiant and friendly and who gives a shit about what’s happening anywhere else for a minute, we’re together right here right now, touching each other, playing, floating, letting go, as suspended in abeyance as our cares, for a few minutes this summer afternoon, this sliver of life.  
Month Four: Nipples, Dicks and the Start 
 
It was, come to think of it, a month of men. 
The Persian who complimented my nipples at the Russian & Turkish Baths in the East Village, where I had started going topless because, you know, why not. 
The guy who slowed his car as I cycled into Piermont, ten miles north of Manhattan, on my way to Nyack again, wearing a sports bra in the summer heat, to roll down the passenger side window and say: “Nice back.” 
The young man who pedaled by on a tree-lined Lower East Side street, watching from the corner of his eye. “Very pretty.” 
(Someone thought I was pretty?) 
The dude at the Russian bathhouse in San Francisco, whose dick was totally getting hard as we chatted, naked, in the jacuzzi. 
(It was a nice dick, really. Awesome, even.) 
The runner out on one of the canyon trails in Crystal Cove, near the tree bath grove, who murmured, “Hey there, girl,” and three others, the following day, who either said something or smiled, in almost the same spot. 
And the LA-style type who came up to me at the Indian vegetarian on Sunset (a restaurant the Carpenter and I frequented adoringly until it abruptly closed) to apologize for looking at me this whole time. He thought he recognized me, he explained – and I kinda wasn’t sure if he wanted me to forgive him? 
They all surprised me but yo the one at the Indian vegetarian especially. Because, when you have trained yourself to have such low self-esteem – mostly as a defense mechanism to squelch hope altogether, before it even commences luring you into hoping your past may not matter, this time could be different, etc., etc. – you do not even entertain the possibility that anyone might be noticing you. 
Or, at least, I don’t. 
* 
I was sitting right where I had been when the Persian stared at my nipples, sweating, and a writer for a big magazine and I were talking and he was like, You once said this thing, you know how there are some things you just remember or whatever, and I remember this one, wait, I wanna get it just right, yeah, okay: “In New York I miss the love, but in Los Angeles I miss getting fucked.” 
Wow. You just never know when someone is listening, really listening, even a stranger, and you say something offhand that, for whatever reason, might stick for years, maybe for life. 
You just never know. 
Or, at least, I don’t. 
* 
I would not have missed the thirty minutes I fretted over my crypto holdings before bed one night – suddenly, unexpectedly convinced that I had to sell it all immediately – but I would have missed the Oh fuck it part that follows whenever I remember that, at the end of this one-year endeavor, if it indeed everything goes to hell, I’m outta here. 
* 
And yet. 
If I were dead, I would miss change. I would miss the dreams that wash over me when I consider possibilities. I would miss the lightness and forwardness and electricity of that process. And I would miss not only those things but also a secret I discovered I could have. I kinda didn’t know I could have secrets before. That is, until there was a moment, in the fourth month, when I said to myself, I need not tell this to anyone, and, indubitably, it will be better that way. 
* 
One night, over dinner with the Healer after the Russian & Turkish Baths, I would have missed her observe: We think we are human beings trying to have a spiritual experience, when in fact we are spiritual beings trying to have a human experience. 
And then she complimented my life and thereby helped me gain perspective on the incalculable scope of what I may be grateful for. 
In this fashion, I would have missed catching how, whereas in the past I’d have said I did not understand what she was saying – or should I say seeing, in me, since I usually feel like a failure, a nothing burger of a person, a waste – what I now said, instead, was that I did not understand because I see myself as normal. 
Normal? 
You mean, not some depraved vacuum of a non-entity, but a human being, like anyone else? 
It was in that moment I began discovering how profoundly this project was changing me – for it was not just how I chose to react that had altered – but, indeed, the underlying reactions themselves: my very instincts. 
You know: how they relate us to – and within – the world. 
* 
Earlier that day, the New York Times had featured a story about the 13th Street Repertory Theater – where I started volunteering as a stagehand in my first theater job as a teenager – and the company’s 100-year-old denizen Edith O’Hara. 
I smiled at memories of her for several moments before time rolled on… 
All the way into the following morning… when I would have missed a loving note from my former boss at the theater company where I went to work after 13th Street, in response to mine. 
Turns out he and his husband had just been talking about me, and, look! Here I was, writing to him, out of the blue, about the Times feature. 
You just never know when you’ve been remembered, or when people happen to be remembering you. 
Or, at least, I don’t. 
But I was starting to.  
Month Five: Mindsculpting 
 
Everything from a guy kneeling on the sidewalk to tie his girlfriend’s shoe – What might it feel like to be she? – to images, from the European Space Agency, of stars being born in our galaxy – stars being born?! – to a ride out to the end of the pier from which Piermont gets its name – a derivation I never knew or stopped to consider before, would you believe it, a pier, of course, duh, Jesus, where the hell was I on all these bike rides through this little town, so many dozens and dozens of rides, probably hundreds, over the years. 
The years! 
* 
One night, in the subway – which I insisted on taking because there was no need for a cab, even though it was almost midnight – I would have missed a man who appeared to have almost no neck performing cello in the Times Square station. He breathed through a tracheal prosthesis, and his eyes, nose and mouth, compressed into about half the normal ratio, were situated down, relatively close to his chin. He was playing Elgar – quite lovingly – and his fingers graced the strings with aplomb. I would have missed contributing a larger donation than I usually do when subway musicians touch my heart, before vanishing down the stairs. 
* 
Two days later, if I had not taken the subway and then posted about the cellist, a successful crypto friend – whose event I attended at the same members-only club where I once met up with a British dandy grifter, who had like ulcers on his calves or something, it was weird – would not have mentioned how the experience impacted him. 
If the successful crypto friend had not mentioned this impact, I would not have shared the story with the cute doctor he was talking with. 
If I had not shared the story with the cute doctor, I would have missed the opportunity to connect with his humanity. 
If we had not connected, I might have felt compelled to linger at the event longer, and, if I had, I would have missed talking in the sauna with my successful crypto friend’s business partner, who also happened to cut out a little early, so he too might hit the Russian & Turkish Baths before closing time. 
And, finally, if we had not gotten into such a deep conversation, I would not have entered the ambient heat Russian Room precisely when I did… which means I then would have missed saying, to a guy who was sitting next to me, “I hope you don’t mind, but I wanted to tell you that you have one of the nicest bodies I have ever seen.” 
I got a little off on his faint German accent and staring into those caramel bronzite eyes of his – man, this draw toward guys of Korean heritage is a real thing – as we talked about educational systems and career bifurcation and a-mortality and crypto, in between dousing ourselves with cold water so we could enjoy the hotness together a tad longer. 
* 
Several days later, en route to the spa in Ktown following a flight back to Los Angeles, I’d have missed a long phone call with Mom that made me feel much better, despite the length of it resulting in the decision to forego a massage –  which I ended up getting afterward anyway from some guy at Whole Foods, who had a massage chair set up near the cash registers! 
He was even more fortuitous than whichever masseuse I’d have ended up with back at the Ktown spa because they’re all women and I needed a man’s touch. I would have missed letting myself go and pretending that his fingers on my neck were those of a lover I knew and trusted and who would be there for me and hold me and never let me go, as I soared away into a sky where dreams are made, like I used to back when I’d speed down Highway 1 after visiting my best friend from childhood at UC Santa Cruz, pounding Closer by Nine Inch Nails at full volume until I hit 100 mph, at which instant everything shitty that I had ever gone through would dissipate – if only for a moment – in the sunlight. 
The depression fallout was very bad after this emotional lift, quite shatteringly – with the fantasy of blowing my brains out overtaking me all in an instant – so, I especially would have missed how swiftly my mind turned back to this project, and what I may have to look forward to tomorrow, and the next day, and the next… 
* 
Was all this mindsculpting – training thought on growth like a Bonsai tree – really fucking working? 
Life had lost weight. 
  
Month Six: Now 
 
In the sixth month, I would have missed writing an Ode to Men: 
 
I was born as a boy so I never really understood women talking about harassment from men 
Until one put me in a chokehold and threatened me with death if I didn’t submit 
He was prosecuted and pleaded guilty because I thought what if he tries to do it again 
It’s just that men are so much stronger physically, and that’s always the undercurrent 
Just as it was when a mentor offered me a quid pro quo as a baby lawyer – for my career 
Except by then I was strong enough to say I intended to get what I wanted on my own 
And so I did – with a lot of help from good and sincere men along the way 
The hard part is that the very things I like most in them – the strength and vigor and assuredness 
Are also what I fear more than anything, when unbounded 
The balance is as delicate as the characteristics are the opposite 
And I know that men struggle with this very contradiction, too 
The truth is I’ve flirted a little or liked a little flirting when maybe I shouldn’t have 
It’s doubly convoluted for me being transgender because of the validation thing going on 
It’s triply convoluted because I’m getting older and the desirability thing is also going on 
It’s quadruply convoluted because sometimes I misread or find I’ve been misread 
It’s quintuply convoluted because sometimes it’s invited –  from both ends – but it’s unclear 
It’s sextuply convoluted because, well, we’re human 
But it’s like there’s this line and somehow you just know 
In the same way I know every woman instinctually recognizes Harvey Weinstein’s tone 
On that blood-curdling recording 
And the president’s on his 
You know people say they’re surprised when it happens “in certain environments” 
But an education and money and power hardly mean you respect others 
Some of the kindest men I’ve known had none of those things 
And sometimes I can’t help but wonder if that’s why 
Maybe all this talking about such an age-old phenomenon will make things a little better 
Or maybe it’ll simply confirm what we already knew 
I want to love men again, I really really really do 
* 
The Carpenter and I sat at the Indian vegetarian on Sunset – remember? the one I mentioned we used to go to? – talking about stuff. 
I’d long since abandoned whatever self-defeating point I was trying to make by not talking to him. We’d reconnected and become brother and sister – because, you know, there is just something about his voice, the stubble on his face at the end of the day, those carpenter hands of his, the way he dresses like for a photo shoot, whenever we go out, no matter where – and it’s like why starve ourselves of friendship, pointlessly, if we really needn’t. 
After we’d eaten, I showed him a list I’d made the year before, in some fit of desperation or whatever, on a single piece of paper, breaking everything the fuck down in two columns: each problem in my life on the left, and, on the right, the best corresponding solution I could think of. 
Although the effort got shuffled into a notebook shortly afterward, where it stayed forgotten until I stumbled upon it almost by accident – or, perhaps, fate, earlier today – there was no denying that, twelve months on, I had worked through each line almost to a T. 
Come on, make love to me. 
Softly, so subtly at first, make our mystery for us – do it gently – but, please, take control, and envelop and vanquish every uncertainty. 
Just for a minute. 
I really really really want it. 
Now. 
* 
A praying mantis that lay dying on the steps to the backdoor, which I almost stepped on, as I ascended, on the way up after my morning run, and which I placed in a potted bougainvillea, where, you know, maybe it might feel more comfortable among nature. This insect was – I see now – a portal to sympathetic fibrous strings of the universe, vibrating, spindling outward past our solar system, speeding up into other dimensional aspects of shared reality, tinged and tinted with the selflessness of kindness that I should aspire to, every minute. 
Two sentences from Elena Ferrante’s My Best Friend: “She stopped to wait for me, and when I reached her she gave me her hand. This gesture changed everything between us forever.” Many other Kindle readers had highlighted the same passage. Who are the other human beings around the world, likewise identifying with these encapsulations of human experience, and how do I find them? 
One day when, more than anything else, as always, I would have missed accepting that my heart has broken beyond repair. Like an overgrown forest, I must burn to the ground before I may grow again – but do so I may, now less encumbered. 
* 
That artist in Grammercy, standing on the corner of Irving Place and 18th Street, painting with an easel as if we were in early 20th Century Paris or some shit, and not present-day Manhattan. I mean, he even wore a beret. 
The National Arts Club, across from the park a few blocks north, where I caught exhibits by a Mexican artist and gender-bending self-portraitist girl-boy. 
A crane lifting a giant piece of glass toward some high-end loft, suspended above the street. 
This Middle Eastern restaurant named, um, Almayass. (Say it out loud, slowly.) 
And then other things… 
An exhibition-experience-marketing-ploy type thing called Noah’s Ark, designed by Robert Wilson, where you ventured inside this giant box and the lights went out and you heard thunder and lightning and then windows, these tiny windows, lit up, featuring pairs of exquisite diamond-encrusted animals – earrings, broaches, pins – costing hundreds of thousands of dollars each. 
A walk down the High Line – for the first time, like the pier in Piermont, after all these years, you see, now that I was engaging, I found myself on errant adventures I’d meant to embark upon all along, but instead kept saying I’d get to later, well, fuck it, later was now, I could be dead this time next year – where I took in the huge murals and surrounding apartments, with their walls of glass, almost voyeuristically. 
A subway car pulsing with color inside – and a violinist electrifying the 14th Street A-C-E station with his fierce-ass rendition of Michael Jackson’s Billie Jean – on my way to meet a friend after his cancer diagnosis. 
And to think: All that – from the artist to the friend with cancer – was a single day. 
One day. 
Halfway through our year together. 
Is this world even real? 
  
Month Seven: Purpose 
 
It was a war I’d been waging for a long time. I know I haven’t told you yet, but, the same week that the Carpenter admitted we’d be a no go because of my past, our nation’s largest federal district – the Central District of California, headquartered in Los Angeles – terminated me from a panel of defense lawyers representing poor folks, in retaliation for standing up to judicial interference with the administration of justice. 
As a federal criminal defense lawyer, I wrote in my Medium exposé, I get front row tickets to the imploding hot mess that is the United States of America. I’ve saved a seat for you. 
Then I just delved right the fuck into it. 
It’s more than just how rules of evidence and procedure are written to benefit the government and secure convictions. It’s more than just how the system skews toward the prosecution over the defense –  in everything from judicial interpretation of the Bail Reform Act (which was once intended to reform the bail process), to insurmountable jury instructions that end up swallowing human conduct like a black hole, to Draconian sentencing guidelines that lead to unnecessarily long sentences. 
The problem is that many judges – the very people who are supposed to ensure that everything is played down the middle – demonstrate bias against defense advocacy. 
I talked about how they – those power-wielding judges – control the purse strings of indigent defense, even though, when Congress initially promulgated the underlying legislation that handed over this power in the 1960s, it wasn’t supposed to be that way long-term. Eventually, we were supposed to have a Defender General of the United States – just as we have an Attorney General of the United States (who oversees the federal prosecutorial function). 
In modern day Los Angeles, by this point, things had gotten so shitty for indigent defense lawyers that the court’s “panel” of qualified attorneys had declined by over one-third in just a few years. 
Some, like me, were kicked off. Others had simply resigned. 
Meanwhile, I – can you believe it – had the temerity to maintain my clients’ challenges to the court’s unconstitutional intrusion into defense management. 
* 
Being terminated for standing up on behalf of Americans’ right to have an independent lawyer, pursuant to the Sixth Amendment provision for counsel, initially did not phase me. After all, I was doing my job – and, I knew, in my heart, I was following through on the oath I took to defend our Constitution when I first became a lawyer all those years ago. 
But, I am human like anyone else, and the court’s retaliation against my advocacy – coupled with another problem: withholding of compensation for months and months of work I’d performed on numerous cases, including a jury trial I won – eventually wore me down. 
* 
It was not until nine months later, when I dissolved into that puddle of tears over the Carpenter I was telling you about at the very beginning, that I realized the extent of what had happened: Both he and my profession had rejected me in the same week. 
For these nine months – the gestation period for human life – I came to see how I’d been living with the message, both in work and love, that I was worth nothing. 
Nothing. 
* 
Now, in sharing my story publicly, I had fought back. I had done the right thing for my clients, and I’d live having put forth every effort I could in hopes of helping make one little, typically ignored corner of our country better. 
Consequences be damned – no one could hurt me anymore. 
I was free. 
A bird in the sky. 
Flying. 
* 
The hottie in the Russian Room at the Baths who resembled an elf – but, like, a Lord of the Rings elf, you know, the tall and lithe kind – who talked to me of Wittgenstein, as we sat there on the wooden slabs laid across the stone benches, our nipples (remember: I go topless) facing one another. 
These lines of poetry by Czeslaw Milosz: She gets up from her rumpled sheets. / In her dreams she thought of dresses and travel. / She walks up to the black mirror. Youth didn’t last long. 
And other such reminders that, no matter what is unfolding beyond our control, sometimes the tiniest things will keep us aloft. 
  
Month Eight: First Times 
 
We are not always as invisible as we might think, and, to me at least, there seems little in life more remarkable, and yet so organic to being human, than friendships that endure. What brings us together and holds us there? 
You know, thoughts like that one, which I would’ve missed writing down. 
* 
New Year’s so rarely seems like a fresh beginning, and, yet, this one did. 
In the preceding days, I’d built my first computer, and, at a party the night before, I’d kissed a woman. So, now, this warm and sunny morning, I decided to go on a hike and take some pictures. Only thing is, I got around to it so late in the day that the vanishing sunlight prevented me from capturing, with my phone, the majesty I saw in Topanga Canyon – its splendor lies in the details – while simultaneously adjusting for such unwieldy mountain shadows. 
Reality got lost in translation to permanence. 
I mean, I could show you the sun reflecting on the Pacific Ocean from the peak where I stood at the trail’s end, but, because of how light works, I could not show you everywhere else – not all at once. 
Or so I thought. 
That is, until I turned around and the sun came out from behind the clouds and speckled this edge of the world with gold – an image my phone did capture – because perhaps we can, in fact, share a moment that we thought has escaped, if only we wait. 
* 
I went ‘round and ‘round that hairy portion of the 10 freeway – near where it breaks off down into the 5 and over into the 60 – exiting and then circling back through various neighborhoods to get on again – in search of a spot from which to contemplate some graffiti on an overhead sign, suspended there in space above the center lanes, I mean, how did the artist even get up there? 
If I hadn’t gotten lost on one of those circle backs, I’d have missed happening upon a gigantic graffiti mural covering an entire building wall, on some random block south of the 10, that literally exploded into a stalwart expression of orange-red tags and symbols which were, on further reflection, probably entities from another place, torso-sized imaginings that mirror the expression of existence, strutting across the low sky and pouncing out at passers-by like me, punching us with Los Angeles glamgrit. 
At the center: a toddler on the shoulders of his father, or maybe his uncle, his fist around a can of spray paint aimed into the air. 
A sudden galaxy of intricate design elements and cross-cultural modalities, a modern greyscale Orson Wells gangsta overlaid upon a massive mandala radiating outward in brain-squiggles, then emanating further into a startling, bright blue cartoon rodent being, alive with pellucid pale sea-green and deep magenta irises. 
A cascade of faces and facial parties, mostly in blues. 
Another rodent being – this one purple and crouched, its front bunny teeth exposed and dripping with blood, as a pistol emerged from the intertwisting of universal strings (or perhaps fibers of human confusion), converging above a hidden and forgotten parking lot (where, let’s be honest, who knows what’s happened over the years). 
A cubist, thin man-creature with ever-so-slightly bulbous edges, levitating a top hat that wouldn’t even fit his baby, accompanied by a mysterious witch with swelling lips and pretty button nose features and a toppling pyramid of forest hair, around the side of which a red-eyed goat – a scout from an Elsewhere who’s gotten into the Waking, I imagine – stared at you. 
What a detour. 
Finally, I made it back to the 10 and snapped a photo of the tag overhead I’d been trying to get to this whole while. 
* 
Dolores O’Riordan’s death culminated in this memory I shared on Twitter: Sitting here listening to The Cranberries’ “Put Me Down” – the song I played on repeat as I rode the bus through the Sinai Peninsula at dawn for the first time, aged just 19 years old, and the world was blue like a lunar landscape and my entire life lay ahead – and it’s omg almost too much. 
Wouldn’t you know it, A Dear Friend From College happened to see my tweet immediately, and, the next thing I knew, I would have missed her replying that she felt one of my replies with all her heart: 
I do not want to be old, I do not like it at all 
Even though I absolutely love being 40, which is weird 
Whatever 
Anyway everyone says I’m crazy but I would give anything to be 19 again 
Fucking anything 
I miss soft eyes with which to see the world 
Mostly I miss first times 
* 
Now I can look back. 
And see what I missed before: Building a computer, the kiss, sunset on New Year’s in Topanga, the portal to Elsewhere south of the 10 – each of these instants, and so many more – were firsts.  
Month Nine: Love 
 
If I hadn’t been here for the ninth month, I would have missed kneeling on my morning run through the park, and, as I ran my fingers through the dewy green, wondering why we call them blades of grass when they’re so soft. 
I also would have missed rock climbing outdoors for the first time: A friend from high school and her husband took me along to scale a 750-foot mountain face – that is, a seven-pitch (seven-stage), all-day climb in the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area outside Las Vegas. Afterward, as I slumped in a booth at the casino nearby, inhaling guacamole and chips as if they were the last food on earth, I wanted more than ever to be alive. 
What I want to tell you is what you may already have guessed: I’d have done neither – touch the grass or rock climb a fucking mountain – but for this project. 
* 
Meanwhile, at 5Rhythms dance class – where it was so astonishing to be part of an experience that involved people ranging from their 6s and 7s to their 60s and 70s – I’d have missed the Olive-Skinned Instructor (who reminds me of every Israeli I’ve ever crushed out on) playing a remix of Dreams by The Cranberries, which brought me to tears over how the last two decades flashed by. 
I would have missed dancing through this compendium of savage beauty, as I allowed myself to slip out of the moment and ponder what I wanted to convey to Don’t Fuck This Up – my new name for the woman I kissed on New Year’s Eve. 
Because I knew what would happen when I did – or, perhaps, as a grenade-throwing tactic – I preemptively opened myself up to someone new: another dancer, who sat on the bench across from me following class, as we tied our shoes, and whom I’d felt an attraction to for a few years now. 
His name sounded like an Indian god’s. He clasped my hand three times longer than normal, upon which I told him that he has beautiful skin. 
This heavenly creature was pushing through fear and vulnerability right now, as well, just as I was, it turned out – and so our Goodbye stung all the more poignantly as I smiled in retreat to an unoccupied ballet training room, on the floor below, where, sitting on a chair amidst the emptiness, I wrote a love textstorm to Don’t Fuck This Up. 
I divulged a lot, including how the most compelling moment of kissing her was not so much when she lunged over the armrest to make out some more – after I had picked her back up from the airport to make-out, so we could devour each other while she awaited her delayed flight – although that was extraordinarily hot – but, rather, several moments later, when she touched my hand, for the first time. 
What is it about this gesture that contains such multitudes? 
She called a few hours later, like two hours following the textstorm, to pull the plug on everything. 
* 
I would have missed the tailspin that the collapse of our budding relationship sent me into precisely because, almost instantly thereafter, I began to rebound – mostly, I think, due to how this project had rearranged me and calibrated reactions to disappointment. 
* 
As I began to surface from the blackness, out of curiosity, I snuck back in time to a love e-mail I wrote to a guy when we were young, in that magical moment at the end of the millennium in New York: 
Just before we met I stood in Times Square watching the snow swirl about in the lights. Despite the wind there was calmness in the air – or at least I felt the serenity within me and it was so strong it made the world seem tender. As soon as we saw each other I wanted to kiss you. A part of me says it was your eyes, another your smile, another just the moment itself. There were forces at work. Now, sitting on the carpeted stairs of the theater lobby, I feel them. 
Perhaps the best way to express love at first sight is to experience it. A destination can be reached in many ways, and there are many journeys along each way. Or is there only one way, after all? We believe in choice until we suddenly have no choice – a situation which may be more beautiful than we ever imagined. Do you believe we can know something, ever? We might have a good argument over that because I don’t. I barely believe that you are real, that you could continue to be real, and that the feelings I already have are not being tossed out into the void of fate and chance that gives us, every so often, our illusions. 
I know that I want to share with you. Looking into your eyes gives me something I yearn for always: hope. The clarity of your expression… The height of your energy… Your soul is strong. 
Writing these words almost scares me. But what really does scare me is the idea of missing an opportunity with you. I suppose it’s best to move gradually, and with deliberation. But I want to be with you so much. When I close my eyes I can see your lips right before we kissed, in the subway station at 50th and Broadway, yesterday, the last time I saw you. I also see you bending over the server in the Com room, then looking up, smiling at me. I still feel myself standing next to you, gazing at the moles on your beautiful, edible neck, bugging you to kiss me while you finished up your work. And I get [excited] thinking about how we could not stop kissing each other in the street, under the umbrella, nearly falling over each other into the snow. 
A couple of hours later, I tweeted: 
yesterday I got creamed in love again 
I compared 
my last love textstorm to her 
with a love e-mail to a guy from 19 years ago 
wow 
they could have been the same 
all these years 
I have loved 
in the same way 
seen love 
the same 
felt love 
the same 
love has remained unchanged 
so have I 
* 
As you’ll have guessed, were it not for this project, I probably wouldn’t have risked my heart again. 
  
Month Ten: Everyday Wonder 
 
If I had ended my life before this project began, in the tenth month I would have missed: 
How my hand shot out to catch a fall when I missed one of the back stairs outside. I was carrying stuff and managed to hang onto a bunch of it. The human body – however the hell it manages to interact with instinct and the brain – is a remarkable creation. 
How I felt – as I drove to Thai after the spa in Ktown, and then again on my way up the hill back home – very much at home here in Los Angeles. It took four years, but, it happened: The sensation has imbued my bones. Here’s a secret: I would miss being externally in the middle of something far greater than I alone could ever imagine – and yet pinpoint enough to apprehend with imagination. 
How I like the dark edges of life. The bad angels. The taste of saliva that seems almost like someone else’s. The origins of love. Independence. Grandeur. Brutality. The astonishing plain beauty of everyday wonder. 
* 
A passage about traveling in Love, Africa: A Memoir of Romance, War, and Survival by Jeffrey Gettleman that struck me just so – and thereupon the reliving, within my mind’s eye, of that moment in Cairo when I encountered a heartful young man who had come to Egypt for the first time, at the same tender age of 19, as I myself had done, when I expressed a sentiment to him that I’ve written about before: “Travel,” I said. “Take the overnight train down to Luxor and Aswan, take the bus to the Sinai and climb Mount Catherine for the sunrise, visit the desert oases and especially Siwa,” I said, thinking of the Temple of Amun. “Do not wait for anyone else to go with you. Just go. Go everywhere and see everything you can. You will never regret it.” 
* 
Another 5Rhythms dance class – one where, at points, I felt like I was flying. 
When it ended, I lay in the fetal position staring at the hand of a man next to me, his fingers, the veins running toward his wrists, his skin, sort of transfixed by beauty: We are born, by a series of accidents that have been happening since before Time’s beginning, we somehow come into these bodies here on this earth, we eat this stuff called food and breathe this thing called air and go through this experience called life – and, somehow, the universe congeals, for the briefest flickers of its history, into this organism of protoplasm that walks and talks and thinks and feels and attracts other organisms of protoplasm and communicates with them and transfixes them, as I was: this guy’s hand, for me, in that moment, embodied – emhanded – what it means to be human. 
Whereupon, wouldn’t you know it, the instructor – none had ended a class I’d attended this way before, not in all the years I’d been going – said, Reach out and touch someone near you. 
Now, look – in another twist of exquisite unfolding – this instructor, back like four or five years prior, was the first person I danced with at 5Rhythms – I mean, the first person I ever even made physical contact with during a dance – you know, it was sort of like kissing, except with our foreheads and our arms: We were moving closer to and away from each other and then back together, in unison, and I could feel his breath and it was when a part of me awakened forever. 
This same part, mind you, was the one that lay there in this moment a few revolutions around the sun later, burgeoning quietly with subtle reverie: Would you believe – here I was, suddenly, reaching out, touching, holding the very hand that had just held the whole universe for me. 
OMG. 
Hey there. 
I so want us to touch. 
Right here, in the Dreaming. 
Together for an ever. 
You and me. 
OMG.  
Month Eleven: A High and Beautiful Wave 
 
On April Fools’ Day, I would have missed looking back on how lucky I’ve been to find myself in the right place at the right time so very, very often, and wondering whether I might sink or fly with whatever unfurls next – as much as, if not more than,  I’d’ve missed saying, Well, here goes everything. 
* 
Less than a week later, a dm arrived from a lawyer from Greece – he follows my Twitter and was just saying Hi – with the “wave speech” from Hunter S. Thompson’s Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas: 
There was madness in any direction, at any hour. If not across the Bay, then up the Golden Gate or down 101 to Los Altos or La Honda… You could strike sparks anywhere. There was a fantastic universal sense that whatever we were doing was right, that we were winning… 
And that, I think was the handle – that sense of inevitable victory over the forces of Old and Evil. Not in any mean or military sense; we didn’t need that. Our energy would simply prevail. There was no point in fighting – on our side or theirs. We had all the momentum; we were riding the crest of a high and beautiful wave… 
* 
What brings us together and holds us there? 
Is it this fundamental commonality of human experience: this ineffable, ungraspable, and yet viscerally overwhelming sense of recognition, the energy that flows from an encounter with another human being – living or otherwise, before our very eyes or Elsewhere – who understands? 
* 
You might say that the noticing I wrote about in Month Two culminated in experiences like remembering to kneel, seven months later, in Month Nine, and touch the grass. 
But, seriously, the real bee’s knees materialized now, one random morning in Month Eleven, when I stopped to softgaze at them – softgaze at an actual bee’s knees, I mean, those miniscule joints, replete with tiny bulbs of pollen – as hundreds of the insects buzzed around a huge flowering bush, atop this one mountaintop path on my daily run, overlooking the San Gabriel Mountains. 
Have you ever noticed pollen on a bee’s knees before? I never had. 
And then, three days later – one day after the Hunter S. Thompson dm, which happened in between – there was another moment on that mountaintop path. Except this time I softgazed further out, at the valley below, though not quite all the way to the mountains, and wondered what the very first human being to set foot up here might have thought. 
Have you ever paused to consider what the first person to stand where you currently are might have been thinking, at that instant? I never had. 
* 
I emerged from the whirlpool at the club, tingling – that feeling alone is enough to stay alive and keep on keeping on for – and made my way into the quiet room and sank into a lounge chair, with a warm blanket wrapped around me. As I showered off before getting dressed, I thought, My God, I don’t need a big expensive house, I don’t need to travel to five-star resorts in all corners of the world – I can just come here, to this little spot hidden away in downtown LA. 
By later that week, I didn’t even need to drive anywhere anymore: The warm breeze of late afternoon on my skin, as I lay in my hammock between the lemon and apple trees out back – near where the Carpenter kissed me – was more than enough. 
* 
Fuck. 
I’d been rampaging through this year, one day after another, without relent, thinking I’d never reach the end, which had heretofore loomed like a forever, past the reach of conception, some faraway dream I could taste the desire for but never touch. 
And, yet, here it was – the eleventh month. 
Time was nearly up. 
So, I hiked all day to the Bridge to Nowhere, nestled deep in those San Gabriel Mountains, and, hooked and strapped to a bungee cord system, leaped off. 
And then, like the following weekend or whatever, I headed out to a “dropzone” over in Perris Valley to the east, boarded an airplane, rode up to 12,500 feet, and, hooked and strapped to a Puerto Rican dude I’d met about twenty minutes before, leaped out.  
Month Twelve: Flying 
 
Of course my main parachute would open up to a line twist on my very first unattached skydive! 
What I would have missed – though I didn’t even realize it until after I’d landed – is how I went into dealing with that emergency in accordance with my training from the day before: by spinning myself around and pedaling my legs, and, then, once I was straightened out, going straight into a canopy control check. 
It did not even occur to me that I had a potentially life-threatening problem – all alone – 5,000 above the ground. 
All I knew, in those instants of eternity, was calm. 
* 
Another thing I would have missed about that jump – although, again, it didn’t catch up with me, or, rather, I didn’t catch up with it, until later – was the communion I experienced with my instructors and the Kind-eyed Cameraman during freefall. 
Wow: Was that electric spiritual current a collective brain meld, as we plummeted at terminal velocity toward the earth, or what? 
* 
Soaring above the very world I had so longed to escape just one year before, on my virgin flight under solo canopy, I’d have missed becoming a new person – more humbled, yet less afraid – and, of course, sharing what happened next, with you. 
  
 
 
The Sky and I 
  
 
 
“Every time that I have gone up in an aeroplane and looking down have realized that I was free of the ground, I have had the consciousness of a great new discovery. I see I have thought this was the idea and now I understand everything.” 
– Isak Dinesen, Out of Africa 
  
Jumps 1 and 2: I Saw the World 
 
He was about my height and around my age, and scruffy. His eyes, dashing golden brown fields of hay swaying under gusts of molasses, shone with a twinkle. I don’t remember whether he smiled, but I’m almost as sure as you are that he must have. 
I mean, how else would an instructor introduce himself before a first tandem skydive. 
What the fuck am I doing? 
I liked that he was Puerto Rican. I had only visited the island once, several years before Hurricane Maria. The trip had been a treat from some Craigslist date who developed an instant crush on me and then, as time passed, became a friend whose authenticity always lifted my spirits – even mornings after he stayed up the whole night snorting cocaine. 
I’ve felt closer to Puerto Ricans in general ever since the storm. Not that Hurricane Sandy left quite as much destruction in its wake – and yet, when I close my eyes, I can still see the sky light up white as an eggshell, when something in the powerplant seven blocks north of my old apartment in the East Village exploded, and water from the East River came creeping, and then suddenly flowing faster and faster, up the block toward our building, cascading over the well out front and filling up the basement – coming within inches of my home, closer and closer – before receding… 
I stared into those alluring brown eyes, just as I had bored into those of my surgeon in Bangkok before sex change surgery – asking myself all that mattered in such a moment: Could I trust this human being, whom I knew nothing about, with my life? 
Hurricane bonding aside. 
My training, such as it was, had comprised one short video and a series of waivers – one after another stating, in various permutations, that I understood skydiving was an inherently dangerous activity and I could die and I and my heirs would therefore give up my right to pursue any remedy in the event of injury or death and no one would sue the dropzone or anyone affiliated with it for any reason ever. 
You know. You’ve been through the drill. 
Of course I could trust him. 
It was his life up there, too, after all. Both of ours together. 
* 
The next thing I knew, I was farting with each step as we approached that great big door at the back of the sky van – expelling whatever air my body conjured out of nervousness or perhaps terror: the same heart-quickening excitement, bubbling with shock, that had seized me and electrified my blood during our entire ride to altitude – an interminable fifteen minutes that had flashed by quicker than a year of life… 
An eternity to the door, gone by in an instant – 
Oh my God, we were outside now, in the motherfucking sky, flipping a gainer even though we weren’t supposed to, I mean, that video from before only said I was supposed to arch, hips down toward earth, pointing at the world; this flip was an unexpected development, and the horror of it nearly sent me into paroxysms, apoplectic in this fraction of a second that lasted forever, that is, as we stabilized and then accelerated toward terminal velocity, whereupon the fear dissipated and everything I’d ever thought I’d known or experienced converged into one enlivening, all-encompassing surreality that overtook me and shredded every sensation into bliss. 
Holy shit. 
* 
It’s conceivable. 
I mean, yeah, sure, you might be able to conduct some sort of exhaustive search, casting your net across the southern half of California or whatever, and, against the odds, find two hotter men. 
But, I doubt it. 
“Thank you in advance for saving my life,” I said to the dirty blond one, my Accelerated Free Fall (AFF) Level One main instructor, as he checked my gear a second time. 
“You’re responsible for that,” he admonished gently, looking up at me. “We’re just your backup.” 
What was about to go down was still penetrating me. My decision to go through with a skydive wearing my own parachute had only started hitting yesterday, halfway through our first jump course, when the instructor had whipped out pictures of malfunctions. 
I’m not sure what I’d assumed – that canopies just always opened properly? 
“This part is meant to scare you,” she said, seeing our faces. 
And then, after a moment, holding up a placard with a clearly fucked up canopy, she queried: “What do you do if see something like this?” 
“Emergency procedures,” we all repeated, in a chorus. 
“And what are they?” 
“Look red, grab red, peel, pull. Look silver, grab silver, peel, pull. Arch.” 
“Show me.” 
We all gazed at where our red and silver emergency handles would be and started to demonstrate. 
“Say it out loud as you do it,” she reminded us. 
“Look red, grab red, peel, pull. Look silver, grab silver, peel, pull. Arch.” 
“Again.” 
“Look red…” 
I looked down, slightly embarrassed. 
“You’re right,” I exhaled. “Of course.” 
How quickly it was all unfolding. 
Wasn’t it just a few minutes ago that they’d called my name and I’d headed to the gear-up area? 
The seconds flew by, unrelenting. 
Washing off my goggles with Windex and a stray paper towel. 
Fitting a medium-sized helmet and tightening the strap. 
Checking my altimeter to ensure it was set to zero. 
Leaving the student gear-up area: my God, what next? 
Walking past the boarding area. Less than ten minutes now. 
In a mock-up, going through the dive flow, one last time. 
Repeating each phase: arch, check-in, three practice touches on the small faux leather ball connected to the pilot chute that would catch air and extract my main canopy, altitude check every four-to-five seconds, lock on at 6,000, wave off and pull at 5,500 feet… 
Going through it again… 
Hyper-conscious that my voice, scurrying out of a throat dried by desert air and the sheer import of what was happening, sounds deep, like a guy’s – but not caring because I have a parachute strapped on and I’m about to board an airplane, so who the fuck cares... 
I mean, who the fuck – 
My main instructor, noticing my tension, drifting into my consciousness to intervene: “Yeah… you’re skydiving! Right around here, you start relaxing.” 
And then, pointing to the Kind-eyed Cameraman: “He’s gonna be flying in front of you – smile and give him the thumbs up… Okay, 6,000…” 
Wave off and pull at 5,500 feet… 
* 
Reserve instructor? 
You mean I can lose the first one? 
It was on the ride up, when he was seated next to me, that I noticed how his profile resembled the stark definitions of the first boy I ever slept with, twenty-five years ago. 
A quarter century. 
A lifetime in and of itself. 
Several lifetimes, and many more over. 
An eternity of an instant, that time. 
2,500? That’s my final decision altitude – whether I can fly my main canopy or need to cutaway. 
He sure is hot. 
5,500? That’s pull time. 
They both are. 
The dive flow? Arch, check-in, three practice touches on the small faux leather ball connected to the pilot chute that’ll catch air and extract my main canopy, altitude check every four-to-five seconds, lock on at 6,000, wave off and pull at 5,500 feet… 
Yes. 
Yes, I’m ready to skydive. 
12,500 feet. 
The door was open. 
Everyone before us had left. 
My God. 
I later observed, in the video, how I clenched my main instructor’s shirtsleeve all the way to the door… 
and, as we stood there, at the edge, my heels hanging over into the sky, I gave the count… 
ready… set… 
pausing for an extra second – hesitating – for an instant of eternity – before the go… 
and suddenly I hopped back and out. 
My last thought was the same as on the table before sex change surgery: 
I 
saw 
the world… 
Both times everything went black. 
* 
Except, this time, the blackness only lasted the four breaths they had told me to take as I arched… 
BREATHE. 
ARCH. 
BREATHE. 
ARCH. 
BREATHE… 
Arching… 
Breathing… 
As the world came back into focus and a wave of splendor hit. 
“You’re skydiving!” 
And, sure enough, there he was: the Kind-eyed Cameraman, in front of me, smiling widely. 
Hey, you. 
I smiled and stuck out my tongue and gave him a thumbs up with both hands – which otherwise clenched the air in anxiety, like a Gremlin’s gnarled paws, holding all the emotion I couldn’t feel yet and maybe never would… 
“You’re skydiving!” 
Oh, fuck… 
That went by fast. 
It’s pull time and where is that goddamn little ball, the one I’m supposed to pull to extract my pilot chute, which in turn should catch air and extract my main, that is, if everything were working as intended, which it was not, because I couldn’t find that goddamn ball, at least until I felt my main instructor’s hand on my Gremlin paw, gently placing my fingers arou– 
PULL. 
* 
They hadn’t told us anything about steering, really, at least not that I remembered. 
Whatever. I was under a canopy above the earth. 
It was… 
the most 
incredible 
experience 
of 
my life. 
* 
“Oh, yyyyyyyyou’re the one who stuck out her tongue.” 
“Yes,” I murmured, taking the flash drive with the video she’d edited. 
“You’re one of us,” she chuckled. 
And then, a moment later, as she cast her eyes over the counter and back up at me: “Welcome home.” 
  
Jumps 3 – 9: The Journey 
 
My second unattached skydive. 
I was neither accustomed to the proposition of jumping out of an airplane – I shook my head as I sat in my car in the parking lot: What am I doing this for, exactly? – nor why, let alone how, I was supposed to move myself and my instructor forward and “drag” him “across the sky.” 
He promised the experience would be fun for him – and my reserve instructor, as well. 
Fabulous. Yeah. 
I mean, I got the mechanics of what I was being tested on: whether I could extend my legs and pull my arms in toward my shoulders – kinda like pushing and clawing my body across a bed of air blasting at me from below, supposedly – but, srsly, WTF. 
Also, this main instructor – who seemed to be avoiding eye contact – came off as vaguely weird. He was older than the others and it was a weekday – why wasn’t he working? 
Then again, why wasn’t I? 
His bright blue eyes caught the light like ice. 
I’ve never trusted blue eyes. 
We talked about criminal defense. If he had it to do all over again, he mused, perhaps that’s what he’d have done. 
At which point he did that thing where we sort of bunch our lips in on one side a little, gaze at the ground and nod our heads, signaling resignation to fate – while simultaneously reveling in the success we’ve met on the path we chose. 
I smiled mildly in return, making sure my own lips covered my teeth in solidarity. I considered whether to go into detail about how the country is ripping apart at the inner seams, as our legal system further devolves into a morass of mediocrity and hypocrisy. Instead, I defaulted to my other work with cryptocurrency and Web 3.0, and then, since he’s in finance, prattled on about bitcoin while we geared up in the otherwise empty student prep area. 
* 
AFF Level Two. 
Okay. 
I wasn’t going to do the skydive maybe. I mean, I was going to go through the motions and ride up on the airplane with this Blue-eyed Finance Guy, sure, but I could always decide at the last minute to stop everything and ride back down and walk away from the dropzone forever. 
I was in the driver’s seat here, after all, it was my money and my life. I could pull the plug anytime I wanted, couldn’t I? 
Couldn’t I? 
* 
AFF Level Three. 
Now we were really cooking: The idea that I was about to initiate two – or, if time permitted, possibly four – ninety-degree turns struck me as out of this world. 
My Irish reserve instructor was not only cheeky – Have you read Joyce? I asked, about to reference a short story of his that evoked my arrival at Dublin in snowfall; to which he responded that he’d started Ulysses but found Finnegan’s Wake “much more accessible” – he was also cute: I liked especially the nose and labret piercings and longish-but-not-too-long hair. 
And, wouldn’t you it, here was the Puerto Rican again, too – on my main side. I flushed with embarrassment because of what happened last time. 
You see, at the end of my Level Two jump, after I’d dragged him and the Blue-eyed Finance Guy “across the sky,” canopy landing traffic had kinda wigged me out – or, rather, I’d wigged myself out – and, so, I started doing a bunch of turns – 180 degrees, 270, maybe even a 360 – under a thousand feet. 
The Puerto Rican had to yell into the radio to stop turning – which, of course, I used as an excuse to turn some more, because, well, I could say that it’s because I thought he couldn’t understand actually, he couldn’t see what I was seeing, he couldn’t see the madness and imminent death before my eyes… 
But, of course, that’s exactly what he saw. Because of all the turning. 
“Don’t ever do that again,” I was told. 
I murmured an excuse about trying to avoid the flurry of canopy traffic, but stopped myself and swallowed my pride because I knew he was right. 
Alright. Accept it and move on. 
Get back into the present, the here, the now: AFF Level Three. 
I wasn’t going to do the skydive maybe. I was going to go through the motions and ride up on the airplane, sure, but I could always decide at the last minute to stop everything and ride back down and walk away from the dropzone forever. 
I was in the driver’s seat here, after all, it was my money and my life. I could pull the plug anytime I wanted, couldn’t I? 
Couldn’t I? 
Fuck. 
There was the door. 
If I was gonna back out, it was then. 
I had one more second. 
Half a sec- 
There was no backing out now that we’d left. 
Blackness. 
What’s happening? 
Breathe. 
Breathe. 
Breathe. 
Breathe… 
Oh my god, the Irish guy has let me go. 
Oh my god, I’m turning to the left – just like I was supposed to. 
Oh my god, I’m smiling. 
Turning back 90 degrees. 
The Irish guy is smiling back. 
Can he see me shrug? I mean, there’s so much time and we’re still so high up that I get to do another set of turns. 
Oh my god, this sensation! 
I am flying. 
* 
I’d see, later, watching the video, that my hands once again clenched awkwardly in the Gremlin gnarl, just as they had on my Levels One and Two. 
But still. 
I was moving in bodyflight. 
I was turning around in freefall, thousands of feet above the planet we call home. 
And no one could ever take those precious seconds of unimagined gloriousness away from me. 
* 
My AFF Level Four jump was a disaster. 
First of all, what was up with this instructor and why was she so grave? I mean, she was hot and all, but, shit. Did someone tie invisible weights to the corners of her mouth? Aren’t Brazilians supposed to be fun-loving? 
She patiently went through the dive flow with me on the ride up to altitude. I humored her, and myself while I was at it. 
I mean, you’re with me here, right? How hard could it possibly be – to just plummet? 
To just aim my hips down in an arch, stay belly to earth, and maintain relative stability? 
And be let go of in the sky, completely, for the very first time? 
What could go wrong? 
“Are you ready to skydive?” 
And there we were: on a plane packed in with twenty other crazy people, squished against one another and sweating under our rigs, preparing to leap out in less than three minutes or so. 
I smiled. 
She smiled back. 
Hey – the weights were gone! 
That glimmer in her eyes – check it out. 
Fuck yeah I was ready to skydive. 
Except… I could still decide at the last minute to stop everything and ride back down and walk away from the dropzone forever. 
I mean, I was in the driver’s seat here, after all, it was my money and my life. I could pull the plug anytime I wanted, couldn’t I? 
Couldn’t I? 
Blackness. 
Brea- 
Oh my god!! 
Why are we spinning?! 
We are still spinning. 
How in the hell do I stop spinning?! 
Fuck! 
Okay that’s better. 
Not really. 
Are we still spinning? 
Why isn’t she letting go of me? 
Why am I thinking about how much it’ll cost if I fail this level and have to do it over? 
I don’t want to skydive ever again. 
I don’t want to be on this skydive. 
Where are we in the dive flow? 
Is it pull time yet? 
I think this pull time is as good as any. 
I’m going to pull. 
Fuck! 
Where is that goddamn ball? 
Where is it… 
Ok, lemme just run my hand down the side of my rig like they told me until I f- 
WHOA. 
I’m open. 
She must’ve pulled for me. 
Jesus Christ, look at that line twist – how the hell am I going to get out of this? 
* 
Mohammed the Smiling Qatari beamed at me as he donned his rig in the student gear-up area. 
“What happened?” he asked, motioning his chin at the hand I was nursing with a paper towel and bandages. 
Umm… 
“Oh, don’t worry about that,” the cute Irish guy said to his tandem student, when he saw her eyes widen at the blood. “She’s learning to jump alone.” 
The tandem student looked away – though not until after meeting my eyes and gawking a little longer. 
I turned back to Mohammed, who was, of course, still smiling. 
“I just fucked up my entire Level Four jump,” I moaned. “I fucked up the exit, I fucked up stability, I fucked up deployment and I fucked up the landing. I think I’m going to leave and never come back again.” 
I raised my bandaged hand… and waited for sympathy. 
“Well, if you do that,” he observed, without missing a beat, “then you’ll fuck that part up, too.” 
I faced him directly. 
I chewed on my bottom lip and might’ve narrowed my eyelids, ever so much. 
* 
Regardless whether we watched the video together before or after my conversation with Mohammed the Smiling Qatari – I can’t remember – the Brazilian expressed scant interest in my excuse that, once I started spinning, everything else was destined to go to hell. 
“We still have the rest of the skydive,” she pointed out. 
I gritted my teeth, chewed on my lower lip, and probably narrowed my eyelids again. 
* 
All of which is to say that, one or two loads later, I was on my way back up. 
I wasn’t going to do the skydive maybe. I was going to go through the motions and ride up on the airplane, sure, but I could always decide at the last minute to stop everything and ride back down and walk away from the dropzone forever. 
I was in the driver’s seat here, after all, it was my money and my life. I could pull the plug anytime I wanted, couldn’t I? 
Couldn’t I? 
Blackness. 
Breathe. 
Breathe. 
Breathe. 
Breathe… 
Oh my god. 
The Pretty Red-haired Instructor has let go of me. 
Wait, where did she go? 
Okay. She’s up there to the right a little. 
Breathe. 
Keep arching. 
Breathe. 
Oh my god. 
I’m skydiving. 
I am fucking skydiving all on my own. 
This… 
This must be what Heaven is like. 
* 
“Beautiful skydive, Zoe,” came the Pretty Red-haired Instructor’s voice over the radio, once I was under canopy. 
The world spread out before me, in quietude, beneath. 
* 
I’d had a major line twist. But, I’d gotten out of it after a while, and, what’s more, I hadn’t eaten that much shit on landing. 
I would remain on clouds for the rest of the day. 
The Pretty Red-haired Instructor could tell. 
“Remember that feeling,” she said, as I knelt in front of her on the packing mat, debriefing the skydive and trying to put my experience into words. 
We shared the moment. 
Then she signed my logbook, with a gentle smiley-face reminder to breathe. 
Yeah, so, whatever, the video, I’d see later, would reveal those awkwardly clenched Gremlin paws. Perhaps someday I’d relax more. 
But, in the meantime, I sensed my very consciousness – having molted another layer of mind-gauze woven from the panoply of insecurities that had held me back in life this whole time – dissolving around the edges and into thin air. 
* 
Oh dear. 
The Brazilian again. She looked slightly peaked without that luscious red lipstick today. And, was she tired or just not wearing eye make-up? Were things going to go poorly again? 
“Are you ready to skydive?” 
Hey, I could still pull the plug anytime I wanted, couldn’t I? 
Couldn’t I? 
Minutes later, my AFF Level Five was in the books. 
* 
Jesus Fucking Christ. 
He was going to push me out of the airplane? When I was curled over into a head-down squat at the door, my toes over the edge, just sort of waiting, without knowing when it was going to happen? 
And then I was supposed to tumble out, flipping uncontrollably in the sky for several seconds before arching, so that I could practice regaining stability, just in case – during some future skydive – I were to lose it and everything were to spiral to shit? 
Everyone said AFF Level Six is the most fun… but, to me, this exercise sounded rather horrifying. 
What am I doing this for, exactly? 
Maybe for the palliation of whatever impulse has driven me back onto this goddamn airplane to enjoy yet another interminable-yet-way-too-fast climb to altitude, apparently? 
Here we go. 
Alright. 
This skydive I am absolutely not going to do. I am going to go through the motions and ride up on the airplane, sure, but I will certainly decide at the last minute to stop everything and ride back down and walk away from the dropzone forever. 
Because this insanity really is beyond imagining. 
No one in their right mind would – 
Oh shit, the door is open. 
I’m not going to do this. 
The groups are leaving. 
I’m not going to do this. 
My feet are following the instructor toward the door. 
I’m not going to do this. 
We are spotting the dropzone and exchanging a thumbs up. 
I’m not going to do this. 
My toes are hanging over the edge and I’ve bent my head toward my shins and grabbed my knees from behind. 
This is fucking nuts. 
I’m leaning forward and no longer awaiting a push – because I cannot wait to reach the point of no return. 
This is happening. 
I’ve started flipping through the sky. 
The blackness has overtaken me, as usual – yet, this time, I somehow sense where my body is in relation to the ground. 
I arch and feel stability set in. 
The image my instructor captured at that instant would become one of my social media profile pictures for a while – my body position rendering me into a flourish of anatomical calligraphy etched above the horizon. 
This landing was the first one I ever did off-radio – relying on myself for the rest of the skydive after I reached back down to that little faux leather ball, and conducted an awkwardly-clenched-Gremlin-hand pull. 
* 
I have a confession. 
First, lemme just say, wind comprised my nemesis this entire time. 
I mean, of course I’d fall in love with this goddamn sport at this goddamn time of year, right when the legendary winds of Perris started picking up for the season, thereby shutting down AFF jumps for several hours beginning sometime around late morning or noon, you know the drill, predictably unpredictable nonsense, very difficult to work with, until late afternoon. 
The school had had to call us back from altitude three times so far, as the gusts awoke all of a sudden, heartlessly triggering a student wind hold, when I was right about to jump. Once, I’d been standing only a few feet from the door. 
So, yeah. 
My confession is this: Secretly, I felt relieved each time. 
Oh, thank God – I didn’t have to churn through that routine of not doing the skydive maybe: The decision had imposed itself on me; circumstances beyond anyone’s control had put an end to this mad charade once and for all. 
It wasn’t meant to be, obviously, I told myself each time. 
And yet… 
As soon as I was back on the ground, I itched to get back up again. 
To taste more bodyflight. 
To make love to the sky. 
To fly. 
And, so, you see, it was motherfucking going to go this time. 
This AFF Level 7 jump was motherfucking going to go. 
We were going to motherfucking go up and get out of that motherfucking door and motherfucking skydive... 
And yet… 
The Tall and Lean Former Marine could tell something was wrong. 
We’d been through the dive flow on the ground several times – but, I remained a little off. Maybe it was my bloodshot eyes, or perhaps the slight tremble in my hands, the crack in my voice, the half-assed-ness of my arch in the mock-up, or my oversight in skipping a piece like the initial altitude check or whatever… 
He knew. 
“I’ll be right back,” he said. 
I nodded, then stared quietly into space for a while. 
My heart leapt a little when he came back. 
“I’ve pushed us back to the next load, on a 40-minute call,” he explained, leading me to a practice room, hidden away in a remote corner of the dz. “That’ll give us more time to set up a successful skydive.” 
In the moment, I did not really think about how it cost him to buy me this opportunity. That instructors get paid per jump – and therefore every missed opportunity is lost money for them – would only occur to me afterward, once my appreciation for his perceptivity emerged. 
In the moment, as you’ve gathered, I was just relieved. 
And grateful for another instructor to trust so deeply. 
* 
We went through the dive flow over and over again – in the practice room, where, on the raised creeper, I would arch and arch and arch, as he clasped my ankles and slowly spun me in simulations, helping me gauge how much to carve my arms left or right to initiate and stop 360-degree turns – and then, outside, at a mock-up, over and over again. 
Patience pretty much oozed out of his pores. 
And yet. 
Don’t forget: the winds. 
It was around the witching hour of noon, so their predictable unpredictability threatened to pick up any minute and cancel the jump altogether. 
Each second pushed us a little closer. 
In the practice room. 
At the mock-up. 
In the loading area, as we waited. 
And now here, on the plane. 
As if to urge time to pass faster, you know, by filling it with something before the winds could rush in, I motioned to the stitching on his pants, and asked about being a Marine. 
“Thanks for noticing,” he said. “Most people just say, ‘Army.’” 
We sat in silence for a while. 
Well, silence relative to the din of an Otter climbing to altitude. 
“Can I ask you something else?” 
I was peeking out beyond that self-engrossing apprehension bubble that had bounded me all this while, trying to engage with the world rather than withdraw into the not-doing-this-skydive-maybe thing. 
“When did it click for you?” 
He cogitated a moment. 
Then, he shared that, for him, skydiving was really more of a journey: He’d been doing this work for eleven years. 
I nodded, hanging on his every word, fearful only of the point where we’d lapse into silence again. 
And, when we did – in the minute or two before we reviewed the dive flow one last time – I thought: I am going out that goddamn door this time, wind hold or not, we are going to motherfucking skydive. 
* 
Back in the practice room, as the video played, I lapped up his feedback and encouragement with the same thirst as I had on the plane. 
Did I do anything wrong? 
I got through everything – but, had I performed each phase well enough? 
Was I going to have to do a repeat? 
Did my awkwardly clenched Gremlin hands betray too much apprehension? 
He played the video one more time. 
“Aaaaaaaaand that’s a pass,” he said, turning to me. 
Holy shit. 
I’d graduated.  
Jump 10: First Solo 
 
And then one day I jumped out of a plane alone. 
It was just the sky and I. 
  
Jumps 11 – 18: Open Softly 
 
Oh my god. 
That overwhelming blast of emotion as soon as I leave the plane is just too much. 
This instant of eternity is all there is. 
The pattern here – or so I thought – was predictable. Any fear would dissipate upon leaving the door, as it always had before, when, once outside, I immediately acclimated into acceptance that there was no turning back. Whatever would be embraced me, and I it, in return. Everything else fell away: any remaining panic morphed into submission to inevitability. 
The blackness, you remember, in which all I could do was breathe. 
And arch. 
And breathe… 
Until my vision returned and the world came back. 
So, you can, I’d hazard, imagine my surprise on jump 11 – a second solo skydive, holy shit, an hour or so after the first – for which my logbook reads: “First time I consciously watched the plane after jumping!!!” 
It may sound like such a tiny step. But, piercing the blackness bubble that had enveloped me every time I previously exited up to now caused its corollary – my sphere of awareness – to expand with light. The emergency I faced became an experience beyond reckoning: This sensation I was growing accustomed to felt like love. 
* 
Jump 12. 
My first official “coach” jump – with none other than the reserve instructor from my AFF Level One skydive. You know. The one who resembles the first guy I ever slept with? 
Yeah, that one. 
Excitingly, now that my sphere of awareness had enlarged ever so much – not just in the sky, but also, concordantly, on the ground – I could at last begin to appreciate our interactions. Like, you know, let myself revel in the warmth he engendered. 
I’ve described my first lover elsewhere as a hawk-nosed dude whose profile could have been pounded onto a coin from the Roman Empire. This instructor – let’s call him the Tall and Lithe Guy With Piercing Eyes – had a longer and lighter frame. But, he was just as masculine; and the silhouette he cut against the harsh desert sun of Perris Valley smoldered similarly, aquiline and definite. 
Fucking smoldered. 
Blinking widely, I craned my neck to look up at him, standing before me here in the student gear-up area. 
His deodorant swopped up my nostrils as he cupped his chest and lengthened his arms to demonstrate how I should track away from him in the sky – straightening my body against the relative wind so I’d shoot like a rocket in whatever direction I was facing – before deploying my parachute. It was then I realized how thin he was – how I could have traced the veins on his forearms with the ink of my saliva. 
Zoe. 
Pay attention. 
Right. So, it’d be the third skydive of the day after my solos – assuming, of course, the wind didn’t ground us. 
Although, then again, maybe, just maybe, if the pilot changed the safety light from green to red and we were still close enough to the door, well, maybe neither of us would see it and we’d jump anyway. Just sayin’. 
I mean, that is, if I didn’t decide at the last minute to stop everything and ride back down and walk away forever. 
That could still happen. 
Couldn’t it? 
Whatever. 
The thing about coach jumps was that, having made it beyond the pass or fail portion of getting my license, the uber-expense of AFF jumps with two instructors, and the pressure of all that, I was now freed up to have more fun. 
You feel me. 
Like, enjoy skydiving. 
Let it all go and fly. 
Ohhhhhh shit. 
I found myself smiling just thinking about it. 
* 
Except, you know, what was up with those awkwardly clenched Gremlin hands? 
Seriously. 
Was I ever going to relax? 
* 
Jump 13 was another coach jump – this time with the Puerto Rican again! – to practice fall rate modulation. 
Starting with another dive exit – oh boy! 
“Just imagine you’re on a giant slip and slide,” the Tall and Lean Former Marine had told me, back on AFF Level 7 – and that’s what I’d been doing ever since. 
And what I did on this one as well – before I stabilized and flew around trying to get to the Puerto Rican over there in the blue. 
I am skydiving! 
Up. Down. 
Up. Down. 
U… U… 
U… 
Goddamnit, how do I get up to him? 
“Why was it so difficult at the end?” I asked, back on the ground. 
“Because you were doing such a good job,” he said, with a glint in those dashing golden brown fields of hay eyes of his, “so I was pushing you.” 
Wicked. 
If only he’d told me beforehand to turn my head to the side and look up at him, thus presenting my helmet to the relative wind – heads are bigger than we think and helmets provide really wide surface areas! – rather than raise my face toward him and spill so much of that precious air right off my chin. 
Maybe then I could have gotten up to him for a third time, not just two. 
* 
I stood up a landing for the first time on jump 14. Just, you know, landed and looked around, startled speechless that my feet had alit so softly, right in place. 
Probably no one was watching, of course, since it was a solo. 
Truth be told, I’d been trying to work on tracking for that jump – an exercise I’d eventually realize I shouldn’t have been playing around with prior to my A-license, and probably not until at least another several dozen jumps after that, and, even then, only with a Load Organizer – an “LO” – who knew something about what the fuck was going on. But, srsly, it couldn’t really have mattered much, since I likely didn’t move more than a few feet in any direction. 
Thinking I was tracking, and actually tracking any distance, were, I would later learn, two very different things. 
* 
Jump 15 was the first exit where I held onto the grab bar above the door and dangled outside the airplane for a couple of seconds before letting go. 
Jump 16 involved playing cat and mouse in the sky with a Girl Instructor Who Wore Heart-shaped Glasses. “I was having fun up there with you!” she exclaimed, as we watched the video. 
Jump 17 marked the first dive exit where I managed to maintain eye contact. Is there any way I can get this Brazilian to smile? 
Maybe it’s my Gremlin paws. 
* 
Jump 18. 
Okay. 
Last official coach jump through the school. 
How tantalizing to be this close to cheaper skydives without having to pay through the nose for instructors anymore. 
“The skydives get cheaper as you go,” the Puerto Rican had pointed out, early on, “but that just means you’ll be skydiving more.” 
Whatever. 
No, I wouldn’t. 
I was going to stop as soon as I earned my license. 
You know. Just to prove to myself I could do it. 
Aaaaaand… 
It’s the Tall and Lithe Guy With Piercing Eyes. 
Hells yeah. 
Back up we go. 
Yes, I am ready! 
A dive exit! 
Some turns! 
A backflip! 
I drive toward him and then – 
Wait. 
What the fuck. 
He’s like… 
moving up and down. 
LOL. 
He’s thrown a wildcard into this dive flow. 
And so… 
Up and down I go. 
Matching him. 
All the while laughing into a tube of atmosphere rushing by at terminal velocity so loudly we couldn’t hear anything else. 
Oh, hey – check it out. 
My hands. 
They relax, for the first time – as if trailing through wind outside a car window – at which point my fingers open softly into air. 
  
The LO Room I 
 
“Don’t ever do that again,” he’d just relayed to me. Then, after a pause: “I wasn’t watching, so I didn’t see it to have any comment – but that’s what they told me to tell you.” 
We were standing in the wind tunnel lobby, following some training – during which I’d mangled two minutes of air-time learning to arch better, remain stable, and do little ninety-degree turns – after my AFF Level 2. 
The excuse I reiterated was, as you recall, omg, there were so many canopies whirling around and around, and also another student was right on my level and coming like straight at me, and… 
As the words came stumbling from my lips, I knew they sounded even more bullshitty than they already were. 
I cast down my eyes and trudged after Blue-eyed Finance Guy. 
Down the stairs. 
Across the parking lot. 
Through the loading area… 
I probably should give it all up right now. I nearly killed myself and probably someone else, or maybe two. Making all those low turns and stuff. I knew better than that. 
Goddamnit. 
What the hell?! 
I suck. 
I absolutely should just quit and g- 
“This,” the Blue-eyed Finance Guy said, flinging open the door to a dark cave lined with skydiving jump suits along one wall, and, pushed up against another, grungy couches strewn with whatever random skydivers had shown up at the dropzone this Friday afternoon, “is the LO room.” 
I regarded this alternate reality with suspicion. 
“Hello!” everyone beamed. 
I smiled widely. 
“We want to keep you skydiving,” the Blue-eyed Finance Guy explained. 
And then he told me about what happened here. 
* 
The timing was perfection. 
Although I’d been welcomed “home” only a few days before, due to the sticking-my-tongue-out thing, I continued to wonder whether I’d nevertheless always remain a little out-of-place in this bizarre and inexplicable wormhole, drifting about among so many military and adrenaline junkie types, some of whom – for all I knew – might be less than pleased, or at best quaintly amused, to have a free-spirited transsexual Los Angelina lawyer and weekend artist wandering around. 
Indeed. 
I may very well have strayed back to the cocoon of my prior life eventually, re-enveloping myself in familiarity and comfort zone certainty, had it not been for the Load Organizer room and everything I gleaned there about skydiving and the diversity of human experience and life itself, not to mention the friendships that found me within those cave walls and hand-me-down jumpsuits and skydiver banter about dropzone lore – but, also, mostly about sex – as I languished in between skydives, and through endless wind holds, waiting for the next jump. 
You see, I took the Blue-eyed Finance Guy at his word and started showing up on each one of those waits, and, eventually, other times – after we’d finished jumping, or, as you’ll soon learn, on a day when I didn’t jump at all – just because. 
Or because, I should say, in all my 41 years, I’d never felt so welcome anywhere else before. 
Well. Except for maybe an addiction recovery meeting room. 
I mean, think about it. 
“Hi, I’m Zoe,” I’d said when the Blue-eyed Finance guy first introduced me. 
“Hi Zoe!” everyone cheered. 
* 
The Brit was a sort of gentle giant – very tall and large-framed, yet approachable and warm as a puppy. Like, if puppies could stay puppies through adulthood. Whatever. You know what I mean. 
His clear brown eyes glinted almost continuously, even though the door to the LO room was normally shut against the summer heat, and there was hardly any light in the absence of windows. 
Although, come to think of it, maybe there was a window, and it was covered up. 
Didn’t matter. Illumination came from inside, somehow. 
You know. 
I know you do. 
“When you’re done with your coach jumps through the school,” the Gentle Giant Puppy Brit intoned, in that way that only the English might do, 
“commandeer me for the day and we’ll do as many jumps as we can together.”  
Jumps 19 – 26: Other People 
 
The first order of business when I got to the dropzone that Saturday morning was, of course, to go find the Gentle Giant Puppy Brit and commandeer him for the day. 
I mean, he asked for it. 
Was I swelling with joy as we rode up to altitude, thinking about how I had finally graduated from school instruction to jumping with other people? How relieved I felt to be on a skydive where I wasn’t being tested on anything? How I was just, you know, inside a plane that I was about to jump out of in the middle of the sky? Probably. 
But, truth be told, there was also that lingering thing about it being my money and my life and pulling the plug anytime I wanted… 
Because I don’t have to do this skydive… 
Nothing is forcing me out the door… 
Except… 
Except this urge, this compulsion, this ravenous desire to fly and… 
Where the hell is he? 
I mean, here we are, in the middle of the fucking sky and I’m looking all around – to the left and to the right – I’m spinning a 360 and looking up to find him – we’re already at 9,000 feet – 8,000 – 7,000 – where the hell could he be? 
* 
“Your arch is magnificent,” he declared as we parsed through the video in the LO Room. 
It was true. 
My AFF instructors had so thoroughly ground the position into my brain, which, in turn, had panicked an even sharper bend into muscle memory, that I was, in essence, plummeting and spilling air in the shape of a taco. 
“I was chasing you and had to arch like bloody hell to get down to your level,” he explained. And, indeed, the footage showed him steering and changing direction to accommodate the spins I did while looking for him – I resembled a cartoon character comedically missing whomever she was searching for – Where the hell is he? – by a hair’s breadth, again and again, for the first 6,000 feet of a skydive. 
* 
What a day it turned out to be, though. 
I got to practice docking on his legs and arms – oh my God, I’m flying around this great big blue and touching someone’s legs for the first time – doing dive exits – wheeeee – modifying fall rate – maybe I can fly like, you know, a little less of a taco? – holding there, in freefall, face-to-face – holy shit, I’m staring into another human being’s eyes at terminal velocity – and, meanwhile, standing up one soft landing after another – wow. 
What a goddamn drug this sport is. 
Can I have some more? 
* 
A solo? 
Really? 
But I prefer to jump with other people now. 
No one’s available? 
Well. 
Okay. 
360s then. 
Pick a heading – any heading – and spin. 
* 
It had to be done. 
I was not looking forward to it, however, there was no way around the requirement. 
This truly, truly sucked. 
From 12,500 feet there’s some time, okay, you know, enough to sort out a problem. 
But… 
A “hop-and-pop”? 
Leave the goddamn aircraft at like 4,500 feet or whatever? 
You mean, the altitude where I usually deployed my main? 
I get that I’ve gotta prepare for an evacuation in the event of a midair emergency, but, like, let’s get real here. 
How anxiety-inducing. 
How utterly dreadful. 
Meanwhile, of course, I had managed to slice open my finger while trying to help the Nurse With The Purple Hair Tips close the door on the runway before take-off. 
So far, she and I had been aboard a plane together – about to do this AFF Level skydive or on that or this other coach jump – for at least three of the mid-ascent cancellations I’d been subjected to. You remember: those various aborted jumps in between me and the A-license that would mean I’d never have to sit through another student wind hold ever again. 
“You,” I’d mouth, exaggeratedly, whenever I saw her seated, “get off this plane!” 
She’d explain our inside humor to whomever she was with, as we made hand gestures at one another, and laughed. 
Laughing usually helped. 
Not so much this time, though. 
I examined my bloody hand, wondering if it was jumpable? 
Yeah, it looked jumpable, why not. 
But this mess… 
Would it distract me on my skydive? 
This torturous, low-altitude exit of a skydive, which already had me in knots and emotional throes, to begin with? 
The Nurse With The Purple Hair Tips handed me a paper towel that the pilot had passed back. 
I dabbed my wound, and, as I applied pressure to stop its gush, spent the next 2,500 feet or so wondering what the fuck. 
Seriously. 
What. In the. Actual. Fuck. 
But then, next thing I knew, the Nurse With The Purple Hair Tips was helping me open the door, only this time I exercised some caution so as not to injure myself, and, there I was, checking my spot and waiting for the red light to turn to green and being basically like whatever, you know, the hand is still functioning and blood is water soluble, so, it’ll wash right off my handles or break lines or wherever it gets, and, you know, if I don’t do this jump I’ll just get back down and go back on another motherfucking wind hold and – 
The paper towel has been stuffed down my underwear and I’m out the door. 
My fingers are awkwardly clenched – but only ever so much, and the Gremlin gnarl has mostly gone – and a smile has broadened across my face. 
Other than those pesky fingers, revealing but a trace of tension, my body is arched, and relaxed, my hips are angling toward the earth, as the heart in my chest thirsts for everything out there… 
Where I know I belong. 
The image that the Nurse With The Purple Hair Tips captures in this instant becomes my profile picture for several months, and, many months after that, the Happy New Year e-card I send out to hundreds and hundreds of family, friends and colleagues. 
“Best holiday card ever,” one of them responds. 
Well. It’s certainly the best that I have ever done. 
* 
The Nurse With The Purple Hair Tips and I brave the odds for my two final licensing jumps. 
Up we go – tempting fate the entire ascent, sharing glances like bandits trying to get away with something. 
Until at last. 
Finally. 
She and I have prevailed against the wind holds. 
We are out the door. 
The first jump is a cat-and-mouse exercise where I get freaky chasing her around, and the next is one where I practice slides. “You don’t even really have to move,” she’d said, looking at me as she demonstrated, outside a mock-up. “Just think about moving to the left, and then to the right, and then to the left…” 
Who would’ve known. Moving around in the sky has already become like moving around here on earth. 
Just think about it… 
Just think… 
* 
“The oral exam is always my favorite part.” 
The girl behind the counter sort of looks at me for a second – with mild surprise – before she chuckles and hands me paperwork to sign. 
“You’re going to fit right in,” my examiner says, and motions for me to have a seat so he can start asking test questions. 
* 
That day, I become an A-licensed skydiver. 
I walk around the dz with a bounce in my step, boasting the tradition of a blue stamp on my forehead. 
No more student fucking wind holds. 
If planes are going, I can jump whenever I want. 
Look. 
Okay, so, yes – I’d told myself this whole time I’d stop as soon as I achieved my license. 
25 jumps or so would be enough, my reason and rationality said. 
Anything beyond that would be nonsense, I admitted. 
Yes. 
True enough. 
But… 
What about doing one more – this time with the LOs – like, with a group or something? 
So, yeah, okay, I’ll stop. 
Sure thing. 
Right after the next jump.  
The LO Room II 
 
“So, you think I should buy it?” 
The Bearded Guy With Over 14,000 Skydives freezes in the middle of folding the air out of his canopy and looks up at me, his gaze bright and alive. He pauses ever so much to lend maximum dramatic emphasis. 
“Yes.” 
Meanwhile, the Argentine Beauty fingers the leg straps that curl like ivy around my thighs and up along the curve of my pelvic bones. 
A light breath escapes her lips, as if she’s taking in vast wilderness or a work of art that encapsulates the majesty of human experience. 
“It fits perfectly,” she purrs. 
“Fucking yes,” the Bearded Guy With Over 14,000 Skydives repeats, going back to deflating his canopy. 
The price is right – $2500 for a container, a 149 main, a 160 reserve and an AAD which is still good for another year. (For non-skydivers: these sizes refer to the square feet of canopy overhead; and an AAD, or Automatic Activation Device fires a reserve in an emergency, for example when a jumper has lost altitude awareness or consciousness and would otherwise hit the ground at terminal velocity, without a canopy overhead.) 
This baby is ready to jump. 
“I’m still on a 190,” I lament. “And they won’t rent me a smaller canopy to downsize yet because they say I’ll break both my femurs.” 
“Who won’t?” 
“Square One,” I explain, shaking my head at how much money I’ve already spent on rental rigs from the dropzone’s on-site pro shop. 
It’s true, I can pack up or down one canopy size. So, this container will accommodate a 170. 
But still. 
I’m not quite ready to downsize to a 170 yet. 
I mean, I don’t want to break both my femurs. 
And, I don’t have my own 170, anyway. Though maybe I can find one… 
“Zoe…” the Bearded Guy With Over 14,000 Skydives begins. 
It’s true, this rig did land in my lap. 
I mean, like, literally. 
As in, five minutes ago, I was sitting on the ratty bed-bug infested dusty couch and someone appeared with a perfectly-sized ready-to-jump rig for sale – and then, when I expressed interest, deposited it in my lap, and departed. 
But, do I really want to spend $2,500 right now? 
Srsly. Just wait a sec. 
Do I really think I’m into this sport enough to make the commitment to buy a fucking skydiving rig? 
“Yeah, you’re right,” I confess. 
I extricate myself from a mesh of leg straps and the Argentine Beauty’s hands, dash out the door and through the packing area, and across the parking lot. 
My bank doesn’t have a branch in the illustrious city of Perris, so it’s going to take at least three or four ATMs to cobble this purchase price together. 
  
Jumps 27 – 36: Eye Contact 
 
It is my 27th jump – my very first as a licensed skydiver – and I am dirt diving a six-way with the LOs. 
Feels kinda like becoming an upper classman in high school, getting to walk through a skydive like I’ve been watching the big kids do, over these past few weeks of wind holds and coach jumps and waiting around to break through to the other side. 
The Bearded Guy With Over 14,000 Skydives – he’s become a mentor to me, after our many conversations in the LO room, by now I think I’ve learned that he worked side-by-side with a transsexual for many years, back in the 1990s or whatever – grabs me by the arm and installs me in the door of a mock-up near the boarding area, and, rather than go through the minutia of how to exit in a chunk of other skydivers, basically tells me to relax and hold on. 
Up we go. 
I still don’t have to do this, I probably tell myself once or twice on the ascent. 
By now I know it’s bullshit though. 
And so, now, here I am, standing outside the door of an aircraft at altitude in a chunk of other skydivers for the first time, watching my mentor’s leg for the ready, set, 
GO. 
* 
Heya. There are a few more six-ways, a couple of five-ways, a four-way and a three-way. 
On these jumps, I’m spinning around in the blueness, trying to modulate my fall rate so I’m not flying too slow or too fast, feeling shit out and dropping into frustration and bouncing up past bliss and ecstasy, in various alternations – all the while castigating myself for being less than perfect and not knowing how to do everything already – 
Except that it’s such a blast, so, mostly, I forget those limitations and emotional peregrinations 
and 
just 
fly. 
Feel me? 
* 
Perhaps the most startling lesson – as well as the most challenging one to implement – is eye contact. 
You know: that part where I’m supposed to continue meeting other human beings’ gazes – oftentimes for much longer than we might do on earth – as long as possible. 
As our hands are moving through the 123mph air to meet docks and grips. 
As our bodies arch and flatten to move down or up relative to one another. 
As we swirl around in the sky, like ballet dancers, facing each other through a turn and whirling around to complete the circle and take a grip again. 
As I arch or flatten a little, each time, because I am still learning to stay level during a turn, let alone a 360. 
Eye contact. 
Eye contact. 
Eye contact. 
Look. 
Pierce me through these windows to my soul. 
They are open and ready for you to enter. 
Come on. 
Hop right in. 
I’m yours. 
Here. 
Lemme tell you a secret. 
The closest phenomenon I’ve experienced, with you or anyone else really, is making love. 
You know, that climax of intense intimacy, coupled with the vulnerability involved in placing so much of ourselves in each other’s hands. 
Because that’s what we are doing up here. 
You and I. 
Placing our lives in one another’s hands. 
Each time once forevermore.  
Jump 37: Worth Dying For 
 
A 7-way. 
I dive out and find myself flying to the base of the formation, and then over to my slot. 
I’m early on enough that each skydive still means a lot of firsts like this. 
“Flying to the base.” 
Shit. 
Only a few jumps ago, I couldn’t have told you what a formation – let alone the “base” of one – even was. 
* 
At breakoff, I track away – straightening my body like a board, as I’ve been trying to do since I started jumping in groups, to achieve as much separation as I can. And I certainly need to on this jump, let’s get real for a sec, at this stage, seven people are a lot to be on a skydive with. 
I probably freak out a little – jittering in between get-the-fuck-away-from-these-assholes and oh-my-god-you’re-hemorraghing-altitude-fucking-pull-already-you-crazy-bitch – and so I probably pitch a flash too soon, you know, while I’m still tracking, most likely – or, maybe there’s another explanation that I think through when I look back on it from the future – 
but hey 
we’re not in the future yet are we 
we’re right here 
and 
oh 
fuck 
line twist okay can I kick out of this OH MY GOD I’M SPINNING look red grab red peel pull look silver grab silver peel pull ARCH okay another line twist in my reserve kick out okay quick canopy control check oh shit where’s the dropzone we jumped west didn’t we oh fuck I have to cross the runway at 1,000 feet are there any planes no planes okay go go go alright I’m going to have to land downwind shit don’t collide with anyone okay this is the first time you’ve ever flown something as small as a 160 Zoe don’t think about it just keep the heading no time for a turn onto final stay steady stay steady okay here comes the dirt not yet not yet not yet flare flare flare slide it out . . . okay well now I know I can fly a 160 if I absolutely have to thank you God 
* 
Later on, I would post: Now that the adrenaline is gone, I’m feeling a little emotional. TBH, I did not know whether I would be able to make it through my first cutaway when it hit. I went into auto pilot and the whole thing happened in a flash – literally, a flash of white light, in which my only thought was: Is there is a God? Whatever my little life may be worth, I owe it to the instructors and coaches and load organizers who drilled our emergencies procedures into my brain and muscle memory. Grace. 
* 
Meanwhile, back on the ground, everyone in the LO room has heard I’ve had a cutaway before I even walk in the door. 
I’d been delayed in trying to locate my main parachute, which, we’ve just learned, is dangling from an electrical line in front of the power plant across the street. In the time it took to obtain this information, the five or ten minutes that, because of the adrenalin, expanded into like a year, news of my cutaway has spread like a Southern California wildfire. 
“Now you’re a real skydiver,” the Argentine Beauty remarks, motioning her chin at the reserve canopy bunched up in my arms. 
“Jump 37, huh?” a few others observe, defaulting into stories of their own first cutaways, and possibly other related war stories. 
I stand there, hugging the fabric that just saved my life. 
The Gentle Giant Puppy Brit sees through the sparks in my eyes to the heart of me, which is shaken and trembling, and very humbled into diminutive bits. Like a statue of a person shattered by some asteroid-sized wrecking ball. 
He doesn’t even motion me to him – he simply steps closer, and envelops me in his arms. 
I choke up. 
* 
“Why do you skydive?” I ask the Argentine Beauty, after everyone has left to get on the next load. 
She gazes at me a moment from the chair she’s melted into, on the other side of the room. 
Outside, in between planes taking off, it’s quiet. 
Even more so in here. 
“Flying,” she says, nodding her head slightly, as if to music that’s struck up on the jukebox of life. “That feeling is worth dying for.” 
  
Jumps 38 – 45: A Jolt 
 
Okay so at this point it really is my money and my life. And I really can pull the plug on this thing any time before leaving the door. 
I mean, it’s three days after my first cutaway – a fucking cutaway, for God’s sake, that shit was real – and, if I am honest with myself, I am still thinking about it. 
Like, a lot. 
How does it feel? 
It feels as if, in that juncture, I experienced a jolt of something grander than I ever imagined or could have conceived. 
A jolt. 
A jolt running, from the very depths at the unfathomable center of me, to another dimension, and from the outer reaches of our multiverse, all the way back in, to the beat of my heart, simultaneously. 
Fuck there was like this expansion and collapse of my consciousness – by which I mean the entirety of my hopes and fears and desires and wrath and yearning – yeah, that proverbial “my whole life flashed before my eyes” cliché – within the fraction of a second in which time shed and assumed meaning, and perception inverted and exploded outward into infinitesimal smallness and infinite largeness. 
A jolt. 
Fuck there was like this massive breakdown and reconstitution of my mind, through One Year, you remember, the change that required months to start yielding, taking what seemed like forever to materialize – whereas that first cutaway jolt hit and did the same thing, re-comprised my essence – my underlying reactions themselves: my very instincts – in a sort of spiritual Big Bang. 
In an instant. 
An instant of eternity. 
An eternal jolt. 
You know. 
I want more of it. 
Don’t you? 
I want to jump. 
Feel me? 
I want to fly. 
I know you do. 
Let’s share a jolt. 
Together. 
I’d love nothing more. 
Nor, I know, would you. 
And, so, here the four of us go. 
Up. 
Up and away. 
On another skydive. 
We are out the door. 
Linked arm to opposing arm in an “accordion,” adjacent to one another like a human jigsaw puzzle, all looking in toward each other’s eyes, at the center. 
Spinning. 
Linking in another accordion. 
Spinning again. 
Forming a circle. 
Spin… 
Circle… 
* 
That four-way is followed by another – and then comes a smattering of six- and seven-ways, and then two more four-ways. 
Lots going on here – tons of shit more or less unleashing and exposing itself on each jump, here I am, trying so hard: trying to maintain eye contact, sometimes succeeding and sometimes drifting away; trying to extend my legs more and drive toward the center of the formation; trying to track sufficiently and then “stop” for a sec before deploying; trying to regain stability and rescue some of these goddamn line twists from poor body position. 
It’s a jumble. 
* 
My 45th skydive is when this baggage catches up with me. 
“Your head wasn’t really in the jump,” the Soft Yet Edgy Brazilian observes, as we debrief the video in the LO Room. 
She’s right. 
I was on a borrowed rig while my own was getting a reserve repack – no, of course I couldn’t wait for it to be ready before skydiving again – and the damn harness felt so big, as if I was swimming around in the fucker, at some points sensing it so loose around my shoulders and chest that I wondered whether, at 7,000 feet or whatever, I might slip right out. 
And yet. 
Wasn’t it just one jump ago that had felt so magnificent? 
On that one – which I was convinced I shouldn’t do because I was tired or whatever, and probably also because of skidding out into the ground on the jump prior – I’d had a Tinkerbell landing and instantly felt redeemed. 
And yet. 
Here I was. 
Back on my ass again. 
It’s very confusing, this back-and-forth, this two-steps-forward-then-one-or-three-or-seven in the wrong direction. 
What the fuck am I doing?  
Jumps 46 – 51: Nothing Else Matters 
 
Jump 46. 
The Bearded Guy With Over 14,000 Skydives is our LO. 
“And, remember, if all else fails,” he chants on the ride up, and then we all chime in: “Improvise!” 
Back on the ground, he’ll comment on my awkwardly clenched Gremlin hands, sort of mimicking their gnarl as he cycles through the video endeavoring to persuade me to relax. 
“I’m jumping out of a goddamn airplane!” I respond. And then, dejectedly: “I’m never going to relax on a fucking skydive.” 
And yet. 
My logbook reads: “Felt wonderful in [the] air again. Beautiful landing. First jump back on my rig and post-Ninth Circuit argument. Floating feeling.” 
It had been one hell of a haul from the rock bottom of termination from the indigent defense panel in the Central District of California to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit – the largest federal appeals court in our nation – but, I’d made it. 
I’d been fighting without relent, you remember, for what I suspect would seem self-evident to most Americans: that criminal defense lawyers, even ones who represent the poor, should operate independent of judges who appoint us. 
I mean, seriously, what the fuck kind of a system do we think we have when appointing courts can strongarm defense lawyers into submission? 
Especially in the federal system, where the cards are so stacked against individual rights, already? 
It’s just not the way things should be – let alone what our Founders intended. 
And everyone knows it. 
And yet. 
After three years of work and preparation, there I was, at oral argument in the Ninth Circuit, stating the obvious, over and over again, to three lackeys on the bench: zombie-judges who had not even bothered to read and digest the briefs I submitted. 
You think I’m being hyperbolic and melodramatic. Oh but I wish I were. One of them – there were three on the panel – actually boasted about having decided the issues beforehand – like, he literally said he had not read the extensive records I had submitted on my clients’ behalf – while the others, mystified as deer in the headlights, inquired what the main issues were, yes, the very arguments I’d been litigating front and center the entire time. 
Would you believe that one of these clowns even asked the prosecutor how she’d write their opinion for them? 
My God. Look at these slow-witted dinosaurs sitting up there, dripping in complacency, controlling society with life tenure, and, as a practical matter, outside the scope of any meaningful review. 
I mean, this level of corrosion, this disdain for our nation and our Constitution, the rights and privileges and principles that – not to grow maudlin, but it’s true – men and women have shed blood and died for over the decades, the centuries of our history. 
This illusion. 
This bullshit. 
Fuck this nonsense. 
I’m going skydiving. 
Straight from the courthouse to the dropzone. 
Without another thought. 
Skydiving. 
Motherfucking skydiving, bitch. 
Oh my. 
Holy manifest destiny. 
I feel wonderful again. 
Up here, in the air. 
It’s my first jump back in my rig and everything is just right. 
I am floating. 
And. 
Oh my goodness. 
What. 
A. 
Beautiful. 
Landing. 
To hell with it. 
Nothing else matters. 
* 
I refuse to leave the dropzone without one more jump. 
I simply refuse. 
Nothing else matters, I meant to say, a second ago, except this: one more jump. 
It’s a Tuesday, and, so, like, whatever – the only fun jumpers are one or two stragglers from other countries who’ve been staying at the bunkhouse through the week, and yours truly. 
But, mercifully, a tandem shows up – and so the load sends. 
Up we go. 
Ready, set… 
Outside, high clouds menace us with grey, and, the next thing we know, tiny ice crystals are hitting our helmet visors and pelting our hands. 
Even so, my logbook reads: “Loved being in the air and under canopy.” 
* 
Alright so the next couple of skydives are all over the place. 
There’s another Tinkerbell landing. 
Then there’s the six-way where I’m like okay like hell this jump is ever going to come together – I’ll just have a fuckin’ blast with it! 
And it is on this one – we’re talking about jump 51 now – when I look at the ground for the first time while I’m tracking – can you believe I’ve never gazed down in freefall before, I’ve always looked out at the horizon, or for other people, or into their eyes – whereupon a surge of love – what, love? wtf? love, srsly? for the fucking ground? – overtakes me and flows in elixir through my veins.  
Jumps 52 – 56: The Sphere 
 
Not gonna lie, I’ve chosen this canopy course instructor – at least partly – because he’s cute. 
His slender yoga body. 
His posture. 
How lithely he moves through space – as if life is a skydive. 
Those murkily clear alluring eyes… 
Concentrate, Zoe, you’re receiving instruction on how to fly your canopy better – and you desperately need it. Remember all those crash landings in between the Tinkerbell ones! Some consistency is in order here. Discipline. 
I look at him. 
“Aerodynamics? Sure, I understand the basics,” I lie. 
It’s a white lie, though – especially since I gamble he’s about to go through everything I need to know anyway. 
Such nice arms he has… 
So nicely toned – you can see the curve of his triceps as he moves his phone through the air toward the floor in the freefly LO room (don’t worry, freeflying is coming up in a second, I promise), mimicking the diagonal line downward, followed by the small lip of an upswing from a half-flare that happens, in theory, when I brake halfway, and then hesitate a sec prior to completing the movement, thereby enabling myself to step right onto the ground, one Tinkerbell landing after another. 
I mean, just, really, look at those arms… 
That suntanned glistening skin… 
Those thick curls of hair all over his head… 
“Yes, I understand…” 
* 
“Abysmal!” 
I’d overshot the landing pattern on my first canopy course jump due to old habits, overload from new skills, and various other excuses I could pepper you with. 
Whatever. 
At least my logbook is honest: “Abysmal!” LOL. 
For realz tho. It’s on this jump, if I remember correctly, when I fly right past my target – a soft-dirt area – and smack into the packed dirt road just beyond it, and, to worsen matters, instead of PLFing – that is, performing a parachute landing fall like a normal person – I tumble onto my left elbow, you know, just basically slam the motherfucker into the rock hard dirt, as if this particular joint of mine is not delicate or angular or a very important element of my skeletal structure. 
Goddamnit. 
That really fucking hurts. 
I should probably stop for the day. 
Goddamnit. 
I paid $250 for this course. 
And I need to complete it for my B-license. 
Grrr… 
“I put you on a 40-minute call so we can debrief,” the cute instructor says. 
“Great!” 
* 
Okay so I lied to you earlier – much as I lied to the cute instructor. 
The snapshot that the Nurse With The Purple Hair Tips took of me leaving the airplane for a hop-and-pop isn’t from when I was still earning my A-license. It’s from this jump – number 53 – the second hop-and-pop of my canopy course. 
Don’t @ me. 
I ended up going unstable at a low altitude for that image. Because, I mean, the lengths we’ll go to for killer profile pics! 
Shit. 
I swear on my life about one thing, however. 
The bit about slicing open my hand on the door – that part really did happen. 
Or did it? 
You’ll never know. 
Anyway, such a detail doesn’t matter all that much. 
Because, really, who cares: on this jump, would you believe it, I get to practice flaring thousands of feet above the ground, with a paper towel wrapped around my hand, eyes closed, letting go of my expectations – along with the rear risers – to just sort of play around, sensing the canopy respond and feeling what a flare really is. 
You see. 
I. 
Get. 
To. 
Close. 
My. 
Eyes. 
While. 
Flying. 
As if in a dream… 
I earn a good scolding for landing downwind – “Oh, my God, I could have sworn the wind sock was blowing in the other direction…” – but I kinda am all blasé because I started my flare at the perfect height, and, at least insofar as my logbook reflects, “instinctively integrated” the 180-degree panoramic and practice flares that I’d been working on while airborne moments before. 
With my eyes closed. 
Flying. 
Flaring. 
Feeling. 
Dreaming awake. 
* 
The last three canopy course jumps – and especially the landings – alternate between “nice” and “a total fuckin’ mess.” 
And, to be honest, my elbow does hurt. 
I mean, like, it actually totally hurts. 
And it’s swelling. 
* 
In our final debriefing of the day, the cute instructor is encouraging me to try new stuff and correct my mistakes – crashing into the ground, landing downwind, flaring too soon – and glean a lesson whenever I do something wrong. 
I make a note in my logbook about this whole learning process thing. You know, the ossification of the mind and how jarring and refreshing it is to break down everything I think I know and rebuild my perception of the world. 
Like this whole panorama in my sphere of awareness that he’s been talking about all morning. 
It’s true. 
Thinking back, I can see now how my first few skydives occurred in a tiny bubble, albeit in the sky, wherein the only aspects my mind had room for were trying to stay stable during freefall, deploying at the right altitude, and returning safely to the ground. 
But now, mega-wow, I’ve grown into a habit of checking the direction and strength of the wind before I even board the airplane, gauging who else is on the load and what they’re doing and where they might be pulling, and opening myself to more of the sky and whatever is going on around me at deployment. 
My sphere – which had started so tiny – continues expanding. 
Within the dimensions where we perceive, as well as others, into which we intuit. 
You know: the ones where we get to soar. 
That elbow tho. 
Man. 
Ouch.  
Jumps 57 – 66: Welcome Home 
 
“You really should wear protective gear,” she says, tight curls of glistening hair bobbing upon her forehead as she leans across the little examination room and hands me an x-ray prescription. 
“Protective gear?” I chortle. 
I imagine doing a skydive with, like, knee and elbow pads, and it’s totally LOL. 
“Yes,” she nods, sincerely. 
I make no effort to conceal the glimmer in my eyes. 
Yeah, right. 
* 
My 57th jump, a six-way LO’ed by the Bearded Guy With Over 14,000 Skydives, is the first time I fly – as I note in my logbook – “softly and gently.” 
We’re doing a waltzing spider – in which the four of us rotate grips on the Bearded Guy in the center, flying a circle around his body over the course of several thousand feet – and, even though I still have yet to maintain eye contact consistently, I do sense my hands just sort of going where they’re supposed to. 
Next grip is the full extent of what I’m thinking – rather than, say, modulate fall rate by arching, dig in left elbow and left knee simultaneously, maintain level – next grip. 
Next grip. 
So natural. 
Next grip. 
So soft. 
Next grip. 
So pleasant… 
To just fly like this… 
* 
It’s powerful – this high. 
And – you’ve guessed it – I want more. 
* 
“Corking?” I ask. 
The Kind-eyed Cameraman demonstrates by raising his hand into the air and curling his index and middle finger to resemble bent knees, descending toward the earth. 
“Right, so, you’re going like this in a sit,” he says. 
“Okay.” 
He flattens his palm. 
“And then you belly out like this,” he continues. 
“Yes.” 
“Kablooey.” 
He pops his hand up above his head. 
It stands to reason, of course – that terminal velocity for “freeflying” in a sit, which involves exposing less “surface area” than a belly-to-earth position (where your chest is hitting the air along with the entirety of your core and your arms and legs), would be greater – but, I hadn’t really thought about it. 
“How much faster do you go, exactly?” I wonder. 
He widens his eyes at me. 
“A lot.” 
Hmm… 
I don my gear, contemplating the unknown, and then head over to the boarding area to become the holy terror that I will – a couple hundred jumps from now – regard with skepticism and alarm: a first-time “solo freeflier.” 
Look, in my defense: I did ask someone about it beforehand, and I did try to understand when the Kind-eyed Cameraman explained “backsliding.” I know I am supposed to avoid that problem by keeping my hips slightly forward, as I sit in the sky, thereby engaging with the relative wind that blasts up at my lumbar region – as opposed to collapsing and leaning down, which would present the bulk of me, my torso, to a tube of relative wind that would instantly propel me backward. 
But, let’s be candid, what I’m really thinking is: Shouldn’t be too hard. 
Yeah, right. 
Little do I appreciate then, at least as much as I would come to the more I learned, that these types of delusions are precisely what adequate group separation times for leaving the airplane are designed for. 
I mean, the reality is – let’s face it – I’m gonna be flailing about in various directions around the sky, unable to tell, as a “solo freeflier,” with no reference point, whether I am moving, all the while struggling to get into position and hold it longer than a few seconds, at best. 
What a horror show. 
But, you know what, we all start somewhere. 
And so up I go – and out the door. 
* 
“OMG,” my logbook reads. “In and out of sitting – quiet rush @ one point.” 
It is the most extraordinary thing. 
This feeling. 
You know. 
Whenever I manage to get into a sit and my velocity accelerates by a quarter, or perhaps even a third. 
Just like the Kind-eyed Cameraman described: less surface area, more speed. 
Speed. 
A sudden whoosh. 
As if I am a cylinder slipping into the air vacuum of a pneumatic tube, you’re with me, one of those old-fashioned delivery systems in a bank or whatever. 
Whoosh. 
Meanwhile, my rig, which now catches force in the wedge of air between its base and my lumbar region, seems ever so loose, compared to the 56 preceding skydives, when it lay flat atop my back. 
Is it going to blow off right here – in the middle of the sky? 
I flail. 
Zoe. 
Concentrate. 
Back into a sit. 
Whoosh. 
OMG. 
This feeling. 
The closest psychological experience, my logbook notes – although it’s now been a generation since I’ve tried it – is LSD. 
Whoosh. 
The universe blows up into a million little pieces, each expanding to endlessness and coalescing back into reality again, shining vividly and pulsing with energy. 
It’s like a dream – a dreamscape spread out before me, encompassing and imbuing my senses – some dreamplace in another dimension I’ve always wanted to visit. 
Where a part of me has always been. 
Is this an emotional supernova? 
Unsurprisingly, I open over a “long spot,” further from where I’m used to being. 
Blissfully unaware that I’ve most likely backslid, my instincts kick in to grab my rear risers – just like I learned in the canopy course – so that I might slow my rate of descent and nab a few more feet of horizontal distance to work with. 
Because, on top of it all, I’ve just decided to “downsize” again. 
It’s my first jump on a “high-performance” canopy. 
Am I gonna make it? 
Yeah, probably. 
Holy shit. 
I’m still in the air 
and 
I 
already 
want 
more. 
* 
I really shouldn’t have been jumping – let alone freeflying for the first time – with that elbow. 
I mean, the fucker seriously aches. 
And, at this point, I really cannot talk away the swelling. 
Looks like a big red tennis ball, this elbow of mine. 
I go to the dropzone again this weekend anyway, determined to jump if I can. 
Nevertheless, I do indeed succumb to being reasonable – painful though it may be, perhaps more so than the physical discomfort, if we’re forthright – and nurse my wayward joint with an ice pack in the LO Room. 
“The sky will be there,” purrs the Argentine Beauty, as I sulk in the corner. 
* 
I know she’s right. 
Like, in my heart of hearts. 
But, being grounded, even for a week, is making my blood itch. 
* 
Throughout the day, whenever the LO Room empties out because everyone’s gotten on a load – they’re all here to skydive, after all – I head out and explore the rest of the dz, which I haven’t really spent much time doing ever since I drifted into the LO Room and became someone else. 
“Hey, Zoe,” a Nice Friend Whom I Once Gave A Hippie Tote Bag To asks, as I traipse through the creeper pad area, “do you have a tampon?” 
“I’m a transsexual,” I inform her. 
“Oh,” she responds, without missing a beat. “That’d be a no, then.” 
High five. 
* 
Later, in the LO Room, she’s excited to share the tampon story – Oh! Can I tell it?, she interrupts, at some point. 
I cannot help but remember the lady who edited the video of my very first skydive: Welcome home. 
Eventually, she and I get to talking about her forthcoming trip to Chicago, where she’s going to stay in another skydiver’s trailer. 
“It’s such a warm community,” she explains. 
“Why is that, do you think?” 
She ponders a moment, and then opines that it’s partly because there are so relatively few of us, but also there’s the thing about how, with every jump, we are putting our lives in each other’s hands, ya know? 
“Yeah,” I nod. “I do.” 
* 
They’re really kind of beautiful, I think, studying the bones that comprise my elbow. 
The x-ray image lends my skeleton that otherworldly, glowing, faintly angelic hue, contrasted against the charcoal background, with light emerging from a shadow world of ether, as unexpectedly soothing as the existence of human life on a pale blue dot in nowhere. 
How lovely and beautiful. 
No fracture! 
* 
The following day, a Wednesday, I dash out to do a freefly jump. The exit is pure bliss and I spend the rest of the skydive in and out of position, naturally stabilizing into a sit at various points. 
It really is like acid. 
This feeling. 
Whoosh. 
But. 
I am lonely. 
I want to share this with someone. 
So, the following day: a two-way, back with a belly organizer. 
“How do you think your tracking was on that jump, Zoe?” the Sweet Retired Lady LO asks me. 
“Umm… okay?” 
“Do you think you got adequate separation before pulling?” 
Oh dear. This Sweet Retired Lady LO is not about to let me off lightly. 
“Umm… I think so?” 
“How long did you track for?” 
“Six seconds?” 
“Let’s watch the video.” 
And then: a three-way. 
“How do you think your tracking was on that jump, Zoe?” she asks, unrelentingly sweet. 
“Umm… okay?” 
“Do you think you got adequate separation before pulling?” 
There’s really no way I’m about to get off lightly here. 
“Umm… I think so?” 
“How long did you track for?” 
“Six seconds?” 
“Let’s watch the video.” 
I gotta admit, once again, that she may be onto something. 
I need to learn how to track better. It’s important not to kill myself or anyone else. 
* 
I can’t help it. 
I love my people so much. 
But, I also love freeflying. 
Another solo? 
Itch, itch. 
Scratch. 
Man. 
There’s so much smoke in the air from the Holy Fire – the catastrophic blaze that some pyro set, apparently after threatening to do so for years on end – that it looks like I’m skydiving into Armageddon. 
It is, also, the first time I am so aware of skydivers below me. 
Actual human beings falling at terminal velocity – whom I can see. 
This shit is wild. 
Holy fuck. 
Pull. 
* 
My eye-contact is improving. 
I’m standing up or running out more and more landings. 
My fall rate has started to match others’ almost naturally – much like we might approach each other down on earth, gravitating together while also respecting personal space. 
I’m turning more points on LO jumps where we are – to my amazement – succeeding in hitting the grip sequences we dirt dove on the creeper pad. 
My tracking has improved. Really. 
Really. 
I swear. 
I mean, my logbook even notes “watched folks tracking, while tracking.” 
That’s an improvement, isn’t it? 
* 
“Three hugs initiated by men today,” reads my logbook. “Four!” I write, minutes later. 
And to think: one of those embraces was my Puerto Rican tandem instructor. He’d read a piece I’d posted online about how skydiving saved my life: how my very first jump – with him – had meant that much. 
Butterflies stirring inside me, fluttering. 
Home. 
  
Jump 67: Now or Never 
 
Kinda thinking I like the 40-Or-Maybe-50-Something Contractor this much because he lacks sexual or social hang-ups. Shit is just so chill around him. 
Also, he’s easy on the eyes. 
Though, then again, so too are many of the rest, as you’ve gathered by now. 
I mean, the ratio of human beauty in this sport defies rationality. The dz is basically a movie set. 
I’d go to bed with like at least 80% of them. Possibly 90%. 
At the same time. 
Zoe. 
Focus. 
Right. 
Okay. 
So, the 40-Or-Maybe-50-Something Contractor has instructed me to do some spins – 90s, 180s, 270s and 360s – to practice that modulating-fall-rate-while-actively-skydiving thing – and he’s thorough to the point where we’re even gonna get down on the creepers. 
Hey – there’s Mohammed the Smiling Qatari. 
I haven’t seen him since AFF Level 4. 
“Mohammed.” I tap him on the shoulder. 
He gazes at me with those captivating almond eyes. 
“You’re the reason I’m here. Do you remember…” 
He smiles. 
“Zoe!” the 40-Or-Maybe-50-Something Contractor barks. 
“Coming!” 
Alright. 
It’s my first time on the “creeper pad,” I mean, wheeling around on an actual creeper – it feels like a skateboard for my body, except one where the wheels can go in circles – as I rest my abdomen on this foam overlaid on wood, and use my hands and feet to push myself through a simulation of our skydive, relaxing into it like a yoga stretch. 
First a 90 in one direction, then a 180 in the other, then a 270 in the other, then a 360… 
I’m skydiving with the big boys now. 
Feels like high school. 
Zoe. 
Concentrate. 
Eye contact. 
* 
The dive exit is one of my better so far. 
Everyone’s been telling me, over and over again, until it has finally seeped in: The head follows the eyes, and the body follows the head, so just keep your eyes where you want to go and you’ll be golden. 
They were right: Eye contact really works. 
On my spins, however, I do this thing where I catch and watch the 40-Or-Maybe-50-Something Contractor in my peripheral vision, rather than head on. The body follows the head, sure enough, so I overshoot my stopping points by at least a quarter turn. 
And I was doing so well on the ground! 
Wait a minute. 
Was I? 
Because, you know, I haven’t told anyone, but I’ve been sagging into depression again. 
I finished One Year three months ago. 
The anger – which I’ll describe shortly – has come and gone. 
And now I’m in a slump. 
I skydive every weekend, sure, and I love it. 
But, let’s get real, how long can the luster of a thrilling new sport paint over the dullness of my verve? 
It’s been forever since I’ve gotten laid. 
Work is shit. 
My profession, and the country in general, are train wrecks. 
I’m a different person inside – the underlying reactions themselves: my very instincts are new – and yet, I mean, has anything in my life, insofar as it exists out in the world, actually changed? 
Or, did I simply float up to the top of consciousness and stay there, where everything seemed bright and easy, for a while, in blissful, willful ignorance? 
I smile on this skydive, sure. 
And my hands are more relaxed than ever. 
Yet my heart is partly elsewhere. 
And the sadness has returned. 
The cloud above. 
Darkness. 
* 
I open to a spinning line twist. Like, spinning pretty fast. 
Okay, really fast. 
No! 
It can’t be! 
Not another cutaway! 
FUCK. 
I will give it one second to see if I can get out of this shit. 
One second. 
To reach up and try to pull everything apart. 
Trigger a counter-spin. 
And correct. 
One second. 
This instant. 
An instant of eternity. 
* 
In which I give in. 
The vortex swallows me. 
I embrace it without resistance. 
Submission. 
I can decide against cutting away, you know, I can end all this turmoil right now. 
This is it, if I so choose – I’m on the edge. 
And I needn’t go back. 
Because, if I do nothing, within a few seconds, it will all be over and I will never have to be in the world again. I will get to stop being alone, I will forget longing for love and intimacy and so many experiences I seem unable to touch, I will not have to be transsexual anymore, I will escape growing any older, I will become impermeable to being hurt or heartbroken in every way and I will go somewhere else beyond imagining, I will disappear. 
Forever. 
* 
The second is up. 
It’s now or never. 
Look red. 
The g-force from this spin makes it difficult to move my arms. 
Grab red. 
Like I’m in a skyful of molasses, trying to swim. 
Come on, grab red. 
Like my muscles have turned to lead. 
I could still give up. 
Everything feels so heavy. 
Fucking grab… 
There’s no time anymore. 
GRAB RED. 
The second is turning into the next. 
Still give in. 
This motherfucking g-force has turned my blood into drying concrete. 
Still… 
God? 
Peel. 
Don’t give up, Zoe, don’t give in. 
Pull. 
  
The LO Room III 
 
“I’d much rather have an angry Zoe than a dead Zoe.” 
My helmet sits upside down on the scummy couch, where I’ve just hurled it, and everyone in the LO Room is staring at me. 
“I can’t fucking believe it! Another cutaway!” I wail. 
The Bearded Guy With Over 14,000 Skydives places his hand on my shoulder and repeats: “I’d much rather have an angry Zoe than a dead Zoe.” 
I cast my eyes down at the questionable floor. 
Legend has it that the carpeting was vacuumed at least once within the last few years, indeed, there are a handful of people who claim to remember the event. Even so. Yikes. 
Silence. 
And then the truth comes. 
“I’m just so disappointed in myself.” 
There. I’ve admitted it. 
The line twist was – most likely – due to poor body position. I was – probably – still tracking a little when I deployed my main. 
Silence again. 
“You did the right thing,” a Texan pipes up from the corner. “You saved your life today.” 
I nod sheepishly, still gazing down at the dusty carpet. 
Silence once more. 
I glare over at my rig. 
It glares back at me, from atop the fluffy white reserve canopy that I just rode to the ground. 
Fuck. 
It’ll be days before I can get a repack and jump it again.  
Jumps 68 – 78: Kintsugi 
 
Jump 68. The first time I fly another person. 
It’s a four-way with the Bearded Guy With Over 14,000 skydives and a couple of Chinese guys who are, I gather, not all that used to skydiving in groups. Nevertheless, in our 60 seconds together in the sky, we somehow manage a few open accordions – the human jigsaw puzzle thing – and some 360-degree spins. Again I notice my hands dock without having to reach – what a feeling, being where I am supposed to, and letting the dive flow happen – meanwhile getting to help a less experienced jumper stay on level and in his slot. 
Oh my god. 
What a fool I’ve been. 
The LOs have been helping me fly this entire time. 
As I am doing now. 
Wow. 
Another first: I’ve tracked and then stopped. 
Well, I mean, I keep plummeting toward the earth at terminal velocity, of course – but I’ve fucking stopped tracking and arched into position, and, as a result, am deploying in vertical freefall and experiencing what my logbook will record as an opening “like a chrysanthemum.” 
At last. 
A soft, on-heading opening. 
The world is so beautiful from up here. 
* 
Jump 69. 
Because no early skydiving career would be complete without a Mr. Potato Head dive. 
You know. 
Where we chase after the LO in freefall and endeavor to insert eyes and a nose and arms and a moustache into the Mr. Potato Head she’s holding out in front of her face. 
This is serious stuff. 
* 
Jump 70… 71… 72… 
I’m smiling more during skydives now. 
Also, I’m maturing out of the obsession with my altimeter that has contoured my consciousness in the air up to now. But, far from losing altitude awareness – to the contrary – with every jump I’m gaining more: my mind and body are sensing, with greater accuracy, how long the skydive’s lasted, how far we are from deployment, how big the ground will look by the time I need to pull. 
You mustn’t get complacent, I remind myself, that’s when something will happen. 
Keep your wits about you. 
Jump 73… 74… 75… 
All that practice and effort have not been in vain. The naturalness of these many pieces coming together, assembling, bit by bit, starts to feel like silk: I think “go over there” or “down” or “find the dock,” instead of getting hung up on the technicalities of any specific movement. I simply move. Sorta like I get around back on earth: without considering how. 
Also, I’m no longer crashing into the ground as much. 
Holy shit. 
Landing is becoming fun. 
And, oh, hey. 
The wind tunnel. 
I mean, it’s expensive, but… 
Maybe it’ll help my freeflying to do a few minutes on my back. 
Because what the hell. 
So, here I am. 
Floundering. 
Spinning around on my back trying to pop up into a sit. 
And failing miserably. 
Minute after overpriced minute. 
Here in the tunnel. 
Wanting to just qui– 
Oh, hey. 
Check that out. 
There it is. 
A sweet spot. 
Right along my spine, near the bottom of my scapulae. 
Wow. 
That’s so killer. 
My lats have turned into wings. 
I feel the air. 
Holy shit. 
I’m flying up off the net. 
Up up up. 
Looking up. 
Fuck. 
I want to put this in the sky. 
And backfly gazing heavenward… 
Into the blue above. 
Jump 76… 77… 78… 
For the first time, I pitch and look down and wonder: “Where the fuck am I?” 
I’m like sitting here under canopy above some random residential area or whatever. 
Laughing to myself as I imagine what people below might think if they knew. 
Zoe. 
Concentrate. 
Alright, that’s enough, srsly, where’s the dz? 
Would you believe it, I ride my rear risers the entire way back into a landing pattern – exhausting my upper arms with the strength it takes to flatten the angle of my canopy and retard its descent rate – somehow managing to stand up near my initial target. 
There are more and more of these “redemption” landings, which follow ones where I thump my tailbone or otherwise eat a massive pile of shit. 
I’m starting to improve. 
To enjoy this journey. 
To love being a-sky, and then alighting back on earth. 
* 
How can I describe this transformation? 
Any words I may grope for – they seem inadequate, woefully so, and fall short. 
It’s like a first love, except when we’re grown up. 
This baffling splendor. 
It’s blowing my mind. 
Apart. 
The fissures in my thought. 
They’re widening. 
Like an ongoing insight, coming in waves. 
A showering of perception that stops you in your tracks. 
Lifts you up into dreams. 
And spreads light. 
You know. 
I know you do. 
See. 
There’s this inflation. 
So much empty space. 
Like the sky. 
In between the ideas and visions and feelings and experiments that comprise us. 
Where we expand. 
Along with our sphere of awareness. 
And then we break into minuscule pieces. 
Quadrillions. 
A cosmos of fragmentation. 
Where once there was nothing. 
The multiverse disperses. 
Leaving infinity behind. 
Exploding. 
Faster than speed. 
All in an instant – this instant of eternity. 
The same instant in which everything comes back together… 
Remaking us. 
Reconstituting who we are. 
Melding countless shards back into one. 
Like Kintsugi. 
The Japanese art of lacquering broken pottery. 
You know – with liquified gold dust. 
Whereupon afterward, those glistening lines, like wrinkles on a face, allude to lifetimes of stories: the mystery of whatever happened: an unknown past. 
A sequence of broken hearts now mended. 
This juncture in reality, where dreams may coalesce. 
Rendering the pottery – rendering us, our conceptions of the present – ever fleeting, and more precious. 
Continents of consciousness materializing in seconds, drifting back together in timelessness, yet without hesitation. 
A world ravaged by the savage magnificence of its own creation. 
Bathed in light. 
Skydiving. 
So transportative, so unforgiving. 
There is such beauty in this beast. 
In whose arms I seek softness through abrasion. 
A first love, but a tough one. 
The danger and allure of the unknown. 
Eroding away the very edges I ventured into. 
Gently lacerating me. 
Splicing the person I was. 
Editing out pieces I no longer need. 
Putting me back together again. 
My Humpty-Dumpty soul. 
This collage that I am. 
Skydiving. 
It’s changing me. 
  
Jumps 79 – 81: A Skydive by Moonlight 
 
First things first: two daytime jumps to familiarize myself with a new dropzone. 
I’ve never been here before, so, of course, I have to find out what this place looks like from above, and learn where I can land. 
You know, just in case… 
* 
Another day flashes by. 
Time at the dz seems to go faster than anywhere else. 
Not gonna lie, tho: I’m rather apprehensive about what’s about to go down. I mean, really. 
* 
The sun has started to creep behind the Elsinore Mountains, showering them in blueish-gray. Grasping rays linger, dancing on the lake’s surface, at the end of the runway. 
Twilight is here. 
* 
“Death perception” – LOL. 
The Smiling Brazilian, an instructor who gives us our mandatory pre-jump briefing, has this accent that causes him to explain how skydiving at night changes “death perception”  – instead of “depth perception” – and the room, crammed full with 30 people, bursts into a laugh. 
During our gear check at flight time, one guy is so nervous that he sputters something about forgetting to reset his AAD; a minute later, once we are all inside the little airplane, he bails back down the step ladder, and I guess that’s that. 
The Smiling Brazilian points out the target landing area – three car headlights on a strip in between the main and backup runways – at various points on the way up to altitude. 
Three car headlights in a sea of black: That’s where we’ll be headed. 
Jumping into blackness. 
Wow. 
Our ascent takes forever because we are in a single-propeller aircraft. Lake Elsinore shimmers below in the moonlight, and the ten of us teem wide-eyed inside. 
The five big men go out one by one on our initial pass, and then we circle around for another to accommodate us smaller folk. I am to be first from our group because, at 1.1, I have the heaviest weighted wing load (meaning I’d probably go down fastest). 
This flight is louder than I’m used to: I’d been so busy duct taping lights to my body beforehand that I neglected to put in my earplugs. But, no worries, I forget to notice the noise very early on, preoccupied as can be with charging up my altimeter by flashlight, so it will glow in the dark. 
Maybe once or twice I think “Zoe, what in the HELL are you doing?!” 
Yet the world twinkles so beautifully below, and the mountain-shadows stand so starkly against the moonlit sky… 
Mostly I feel excitement. Maybe euphoria. 
Feelings I have never known and may never experience again, you know: the splendor of a first time – the frequency of which I’ve missed so much, you remember, as I grow older. 
Even so, what is happening hits me as the safety light turns to red and the Smiling Brazilian rolls up the door. 
I take position and point out the three car headlights 7,000 feet away and take a deep breath. 
Then the safety light turns green. 
I hesitate for a split second – for the first time since my AFF Level 1 –  
Just, you know, the wispiest split of a second –  
But, then I see the Smiling Brazilian’s thumbs up, and we make eye contact, and whatever is out there pulls me into it and all in this instant – an instant of eternity – I am plummeting through darkness toward terminal velocity at 123mph. 
The abyss of night dilates into a wormhole where time bursts open – if I must fail to describe it, all I can say is that I feel as I imagine I might if the earth were to slow in rotation, such that gravity would operate on waterfalls to cascade diagonally – and, second after precious second unfolding, it is glorious beyond words or even thought. 
My very pores imbibe a world of surroundings – as far as the eye cannot see… 
Just kidding, dude, you can totally see hella shit under a full moon, as you know… 
And I am startled and dazzled like I have never been before in my entire life. 
I deploy at 3,500 feet and yet it still feels like the longest canopy ride I’ve ever taken. 
I soar to my landing pattern, then soar and soar some more. 
Over the dropzone, toward the charcoal mountain-shadows, through the warm invisible air… 
And then, the next thing I know, I am standing on the ground, in a beam of car headlights. 
FUCK YEAH, I squeal – at the top of my lungs. 
FUCK. 
YEAH. 
* 
“That’s ridiculous,” the Broad-shouldered Former Marine admonishes, in that mouthwatering southern twang his words drip with. 
Those eyes of his glisten in the light cast from raw bulbs over the packing area. 
Night hugs us. 
“Always leave the party when you’re having a good time,” I wink. And then I’m off. 
He kinda had a point tho. I probably should’ve done another. 
But, you know what? Why chance ruining spectacular? 
I’ll save my second night jump – the other one I’ll eventually need to achieve a D-license, down the road – for another time. 
Jumps 82 – 99: A Giant Television Screen of the Earth 
 
God how I love diving out of an airplane. 
Jump 82 is the first time I fly without thinking about it. 
By jump 83, I note in my logbook, “It really is starting to be intuitive: looking/fall rate/location adjustments.” 
God how I adore being under canopy. 
84… 85… 
On jump 86, I do a waltzing spider around the Sweet Retired Lady LO, and, in the middle of our jump, I look over at her body mid-sky, sensing, in that instant of eternity, that she is levitating right in front of me. 
Whoa. 
Am I in a dream? 
87… 
Oh shit I’m late for my dirt dive with the Sweet Retired Lady LO because I’ve been talking to the Slender Crypto Girl – she follows me on Twitter because a friend was like OMG a skydiving crypto fiend: It’s your twin! – and we like couldn’t shut up about crypto and skydiving. 
Look. I’m sorry. 
I couldn’t help myself. 
See, ever since I discovered the packing area where the freefliers congregate – there’s a veritable Swarm of Freefly Boys over here – I’ve been spending less time in the LO Room. 
I didn’t mean to. 
Not exactly. 
It’s just that, a couple of weeks back, I was passing by here and some Young Turk – a truly head-turning specimen of humanity, built like an inverted giant sequoia tree, mind you – remarked on my white eyelashes. 
You know. 
My right upper eyelashes, which, unlike any other hair my body produces so far, are white, as they have been ever since one random day in college when they changed overnight. 
“I have that, too,” he confesses. 
“Really?” I remark, promising myself that this time I will start paying closer attention to men. 
I mean, it’s really not fair that they get to notice everything – absolutely every fucking little thing – while I remain oblivious. 
I peer at his face. 
Jesus. 
He’s a work of art. 
Hmm… 
I think I maybe like this area? 
More than anywhere? 
Oh shit I’m late. 
88… 
89… 
I’m freeflying again! 
With an LO! 
And I even hit a sit a couple of times! 
It’s the day of the Brett Kavanaugh hearings and I want to throw up whenever I think about what our country has descended to. 
This icky feeling. 
This disgust. 
And yet. 
Meanwhile, here I am at the dz, surrounded by maleness. 
Like the Young Turk – with those eyelashes. 
And the Anvil – a military guy perpetually in opaquely reflective sunglasses, whose back is literally a triangle – with whom I got to talking the other day about One Year. After listening intently for like twenty minutes straight, angling his ear back for our conversation whenever he swung his formidable body to the edge of the packing area, where he expectorated another mouthful of spat, he’d encouraged me to go ahead and share the project because it could “help a lot of people.” He came up and hugged me the following day, throwing his arms around me as soon as I appeared in the freefly packing area, in a hug tighter than any I could remember. Mmm… 
And my AFF Level 1 reserve instructor – who, you remember, resembles the first guy I ever slept with – with whom I likewise find myself in a hug, blanketed beneath the deep voice of his “sweetheart” in my ear. 
And this LO’s facial bone structure – his angular jawline, his bristly stubble – and the hair on his arms and legs… 
I mean, the dz is literally bursting at the seams with masculinity. 
There are men everywhere. 
But especially here, among the Swarm. 
Fuck. I feel confused and overwhelmed. 
I think I maybe like it here? 
90… 
Hey! The Anvil and I talk again. 
He’s going to become a true skybrother, this one. 
91… 
More freeflying! 
With an LO, no less! 
92… 93… 
Solo freeflying… 
Rolling with it… 
And noting, in my logbook, that I’ve “started enjoying being in the air but could really let myself enjoy it more…” 
Like… 
OMG… 
It really and truly is just like sex, in almost every way, isn’t it. 
Let go… 
94… 
My first two-way freefly with another fun jumper. 
Of course he’s cute. 
“OH MY GOD!!!” I note. 
95… 
Another freefly jump with another LO. 
96… 
By this solo freefly, I memorialize, I’ve become “hyper-aware of safety” – by which I mean that I have finally begun to maintain a west-facing heading, so I’m not backsliding up and down the jump run and thereby endangering myself and others. 
As my sphere of awareness expands another increment with every jump… 
97… 
The sky van door opens up before me and – 
It’s 
a 
giant 
television screen 
of 
the earth. 
Just fucking look at that shit. 
I jump out into it. 
Whoosh. 
Holy mackerel – I’ve adjusted immediately into a sit. 
In which I’m like whoa. 
What 
a 
rush. 
This 
visual 
is 
OMG. 
98… 
Fawning over the sit. 
And, hey – that sphere of awareness? It’s out to where I register the skydiver who jumped before me. 
He’s too close for comfort. 
Pull, Zoe. 
Now. 
99… 
Solo freefly… 
“Fuck yeah moments,” my logbook reads. 
Fuck yeah. 
What happened exactly, you may ask? 
I’ll never tell. 
Because… you know already. 
Feel me? 
Feel. 
The. 
Air. 
Jump 100: Naked 
 
“Whatever you wanna do, it’s your 100th, girl.” 
The Slender Crypto Girl tugs on her vape. 
“I wanna do it naked.” 
Before I’ve even completed the second syllable of “naked,” she nods understandingly, blue plumes of mist escaping her nostrils and billowing from her lips. 
* 
“Can you hold these, please?” I ask the Husky Dude to my right. 
He stuffs my shorts – which I’d donned over my leg straps when boarding the plane and yanked off a few seconds ago – into a pocket in his cargo pants. 
He probably makes some sex joke or something. 
Skydivers are like that. 
My chest strap covers my small boobs in a thin blue line, stretched right over the nipples. 
I’ve never been undressed in an airplane before. 
“Fuck, now I wanna do it, too.” 
And thus the Slender Crypto Girl slips her arms, and then her head, out of her sports bra – which she then stows in her leggings – all without removing her rig. 
She’s so hot. 
The Husky Dude’s hot also. And, lest I forget to mention, he’s not wearing a shirt, either. 
I wonder if he has a boner. 
Okay. 
That was cute. 
I’m standing here in the airplane, waiting for the first group to leave the door, and he’s just slapped my bare ass. 
This is serious stuff, alright. 
Out we go. 
* 
The last time I experienced anything like this phenomenon was when I dove into the swimming pool in New York, after having returned from sex change surgery in Thailand. About six weeks had passed since the operation, so I could at last get in the water again. You remember: It was the dead of winter – a couple of weeks into January, and deathly frigid outside – as all shame washed away with the cool water rushing over every square millimeter of my body, granting me the sensation, for an instant of eternity, of awakening in a dream, like the universe I’d run from this entire lifetime had collapsed into a pure and unadulterated joy of being – the peak of ecstasy, an escape hatch: Whereas before I’d been hiding, after all these years, after everything that’s happened and which I may have missed, no matter, I am free. 
The warmth – blasting up from the desert in late September – similarly envelopes and liberates me – my heart wells up and my mind and my spirit dissipate into this moment – 
The Slender Crypto Girl and I are flipping forward and backward at terminal velocity – playing around and tumbling through the sky – 
It’s so extraordinarily natural – 
We are feeling the air on our bodies – 
And our bodies on the air – 
Melding – 
Dissolving – 
Integrating – 
The secret’s out: 
I 
can 
no 
longer 
tell 
where 
the 
sky 
ends 
and 
I 
begin. 
  
 
 
Oblivion 
  
 
 
“His idea was that consciousness is intrinsically compelled to grow, and the only way it can grow is through strife, through life-or-death confrontations.” 
– Carlos Castaneda, The Art of Dreaming 
 
  
Anger 
(Months Thirteen – Fifteen; Jumps 10 – 67) 
 
Perhaps the steam had been accumulating the whole year, and I didn’t notice because I remained so focused on all the good things. Perhaps it came from the same source as the postpartum depression that so often follows birthing a creative endeavor – the very process I’d been through on other books, big cases, travel, love affairs – you know, a project you invest yourself in completely, and then, one day, it’s over. 
Perhaps there is no explanation. Or, perhaps there is, and I simply do not want to admit it. 
The anger that overcame me in the wake of One Year distinguished itself from any other I’d known. First, this ire was just so strong and persistent. I felt furious as soon as I woke up in the morning, and then more and more throughout the day. My wrath swelled and burst without warning, infusing the world I perceived with such negativity – the polarity of everything I’d striven to make my life into – and I tumbled into sleep pretty much every night in resentment. 
I was angry that One Year was already was over. 
I was angry that, after all had been said and done, I felt worse and not better. 
I was angry that I no longer saw anything to live for. 
And I was angry that I had bothered to continue living, at all. 
It wasn’t supposed to be this way. It was supposed to be a really nice period. A sort of vacation following the daily exercise I’d engaged in, every morning, without fail, for an entire revolution around the sun. 
You know, a reprieve. 
That expectation was, I suppose, at least one cause of the problem. Little can ruin bliss more effectively than preconceived notions – and the best laid plans. 
Fire and brimstone. 
Rage. 
KABOOM. 
Second, there seemed no way out of this chasm of flames that engulfed my consciousness. Simply being angry made me angry because, if there is anything I detest – and there is only a handful of things – it’s being angry. All I have ever truly cared about in life has been love, my relationships with family and friends, art and creativity, the United States Constitution, and contributing to society however I can. The pursuit of sex, success, stability, recognition, and other such fleeting palliatives or illusions have been, and always will be, a yearning for love. 
And yet here I was. 
Past the end of a project to save my life – 
A project that had brimmed with beauty every day – some more so than others, but each glistening as special and pristine – 
A project that had transformed who I was from inside out, from my very instincts to the manifestation of physical being I had become in the world, and above it, flying –  
A project that turned me into a different person, opened up the world to me and me to the world, thereby changing literally fucking everything – 
Or so I thought. 
* 
Had my survival hinged on self-deception? 
Was the universe even harsher and crueler and more pitiless than I’d imagined? 
Could there be any worse betrayal? 
What was the point of healing, if it only meant feeling worse, afterward? 
* 
So, now you know. 
Such was my frame of mind from around the time I did my first solo skydive – a few days after completing One Year – up to my second cutaway about three months later, when, as I’ve already admitted to you, the cloud of depression had drifted back overhead. 
Can you forgive me? 
I was telling you the truth about all those skydives and the majesty and transformation and what was going on that whole time and how extraordinary the summer became. 
It’s just there was another side. 
The side that needed a jolt. 
To remember. 
To save me from myself, and salvage my own wild and precious life – be it out of resignation or mere default, no more than one heartbeat, one thought, one second away from giving in to the power that nearly won. 
That g-force to which I might have succumbed. 
And would have done, had there had not been this desire, this compulsion, driving me to keep jumping and dreaming – the activities I’ve come to live for, and scarce else – so that we might now share the next part of this story, together. 
  
Light 
 
Okay, Zoe. 
Get back up. 
Dust yourself the fuck off, and get back at it. 
Enough moping. Enough self-pity. Enough torpor and complacency and indignation and superficiality and entitlement. Enough is enough. 
* 
I’d first learned about Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR) therapy several years before, through a discussion with a couple whose son had survived one of the worst tragedies conceivable. 
“Nobody knows why or how it works,” the wife explained. “But it does.” 
She nodded at me convincedly. 
I tried to imagine how reliving trauma as your eyes follow light sequences darting back-and-forth on a screen or an LED panel could be effective at anything – let alone resolving profound psychological problems, and especially severe, otherwise treatment-resistant ones, at that. 
I mean, sure, I appreciate my mystical side and have participated in a range of edgy, tribal, spiritual shit – you’ve read about the dancing – although, let’s be honest, were those experiences truly manifestations of higher communion? Or, were they, rather, accidents of brain chemistry, laced with breathing modulation and the pleasure of movement and human contact, collectively lulling my senses into a tranquility too easily mistaken for connection with the cosmos? 
I mean, really. 
Wasn’t it just recapitulating bad stuff while watching light move? 
* 
I feel like I must’ve stumbled upon EMDR a few years later – in an article online somewhere maybe – in the context of cutting-edge treatment for PTSD-afflicted veterans. Apparently, I learned, the technique has helped many of them. 
Sometimes it takes once to get interested. 
Other times I need repeated exposure. 
Or to get hit upside the head. 
* 
Pretty sure a friend from dance class mentioned it around this time, as well. 
You know, one night, when we were covered in sweat at the Russian & Turkish Baths. 
* 
Alright. 
Why the hell not. 
* 
And, so, there I sat, planted in front of a desktop screen, holding my head still, as my eyes tracked light sequences moving to the right, to the left, to the right, to the left, right, left, right, left, right, left… thinking and talking myself through every trauma I could remember – from the childhood sexual abuse to the sexual assault as an adult to the car accidents and near misses and disastrous dates and co-dependent relationships and painfully embarrassing memories and everything nasty or unpleasant that remained for the dredging. 
This process wore on for several days. 
Maybe a week, even. 
After which I was like whoa. 
That was pretty intense. 
* 
Yeah so there’s this one hypothesis – that EMDR helps because the activity simulates Rapid Eye Movement in the vivid dreaming phase of sleep, except a version in which we can, while awake, consciously process and work with the material. 
And there’s another – that the movement of our eyes going back-and-forth sorta blends the brain’s hemispheres, integrating thoughts and feelings and harmonizing dissonance and easing discomfort. 
Maybe like hypnosis. 
Conscious breathing. 
Counting sheep. 
Any fucking method of repetition. 
Plain old relaxation? 
Sleep? 
Whatever. 
I’m bastardizing the hypotheses anyway. 
Point is this. 
I did feel better. 
And, I liked how I felt. 
So… 
You guessed it. 
I wanted more. 
* 
Oh, fuuuuuck. 
What happens if I try this shit with good stuff? 
And thus I EMDRed my way through One Year, working backward from my final entry, one day at a time, to the very first. 
And then back up, from the beginning to the end, reliving and integrating every day in turn: each of those moments, one by one, that had made life worth living – only the gems, as you know, and nothing else – for an entire year. 
The project, I began to see, had matured from a one-item daily chore into a recipe for the art of life: the aspiration to create any given day anew, molding experiences sheened with luster beyond conception, each nanosecond bristling on some unthinkably delicate, and perfect, human-sized paintbrush in the hand of God. 
* 
Euphoria. 
More. 
* 
What about… 
my body? 
Can I incorporate, like, my feet and my hands? 
And thus it was that I started using the foot massager during EMDR sessions – sorry to say, that contraption didn’t really stick – and then Baoding balls: those silver Chinese spheres that jingle, ever so faintly, as you roll them around in your palms. 
If only I could tell you how the act of manipulating my fingers into undulating revolutions creates mind and body energy that somehow chips away brainplaque, clearing pathways for thoughts wherever they wish to go, breaking through awareness and reemerging in geysers. 
Or. 
Whatever. 
I don’t care. 
The explanation, if there is one, doesn’t seem to matter. 
After working with the Baoding balls, whenever I type shortly thereafter – journaling or making notes or working on this project or the like – my fingers dance over the keyboard. 
Light as feathers. 
Itty bitty wings. 
Lifting me up, ever so much. 
To where… 
I want a little more… 
* 
Holy shit. 
What happens 
if 
I EMDR 
my motherfucking dreams? 
  
Dreamclusters 
 
So. 
I have another confession. 
There is a dreamlog, and it’s been ambling along in tandem with us this whole while. 
Please don’t think – not even for a second – that I was trying to deceive you in keeping this other little secret. It’s just that, even if I had appreciated the import of dreams at first, or how they would interweave with life in the sky, I still lacked language to share them with you. 
In the beginning, you see, the dreamlog simply recorded nonsensical tidbits – whatever frayed dreamthreads I could manage to claw back from under sleep’s shroud. It was only later, ever so gradually, as my dreaming practice developed, that what was initially a rote chronicle flowered into something more: a mirror reflecting beyond events and themes here in the Waking – that is, this sensory version of the world we condition ourselves to perceive – all the way to the Dreaming – that is, a threshold interspace where we get to encounter dreambeings and aspects of reality from other dimensions and nonlinear time. 
(Dreambeings are what I call presences in the Dreaming. For me, they may originate in either the Dreaming itself or Elsewhere; and they periodically manifest as corollaries of people here in the Waking – like you and me. Sometimes, though, I’ve found, troublemakers or foes try to trick me by disguising themselves as one of us.) 
I happened to start dreamlogging over a year-and-a-half before One Year commenced. Almost two full years before, actually, if I am honest with you. 
Which I want to be. 
I long to tell you the truth. It’s just sometimes getting there takes a while. 
You know. 
Like when you’re in love. 
And you only find out who you’ve fallen for afterward. 
When it’s too late. 
Are you with me? 
Come closer. 
* 
During the gestation period – from a few weeks before the Carpenter and the legal profession broke my heart forever in the span of like three or four days, to nine months later, when it finally dawned on me that my world had caved in – during that tumultuous gestation period, my dreaming practice might only be described as a brainflush. 
You see, over the four decades I had been alive so far, laziness and fear had toppled me into the routine of disconnecting myself from the Dreaming as soon as I awoke. Nervous about what I might see if I looked, I instead squelched my dreams and endeavored to relegate them to sublimation, where, of course, instead of dying off, they backed up in my psyche’s intestines, festering, collecting grime and sprouting foulness and growing into an ever more rancid and unwieldy monster. 
All my life up to then, I now suspect, the Dreaming Me had been calling for my attention, screaming, crying out and desperately hurling dreamthreads into the Waking, in hopes that I might catch a loose end and follow it, braving the labyrinth to see what lay within. 
But, other than a handful of dreams – my first sex dream when I was 12 (sucking The Cure lead signer Robert Smith’s dick); the first and second time I dreamdied (initially by plunge over a cliff when I was 18, and, subsequently, by gunshot five years later – both heralding life changes); one particular flying dreamsequence a few years ago, in which I soared through the night sky to my heart’s content; and two others, around the same time, which involved similarly-feeling, but visually distinct, dreamplaces (one a familiar cave tunnel to somewhere safe and another a warm sea in an archipelago where I could swim indefinitely) – other than this handful of dreams my brain wakefully retained, I generally emerged into the Waking without much recall of where I’d just been. 
Or that I’d been anywhere at all, frankly. 
Yeah so I elected this whole while, instead, like most people, I guess, to wake up and promptly ignore everything I’d dreamed, to forget every detail immediately, suppressing the other worlds I’d seen like society trains us to do, without delay, the instant our eyes fly open and we face the pressures of work and making money and check our phones and bludgeon ourselves with news and images of birthdays and vacations and weddings and anniversaries and nights out and beach days and perfect children and ideal partners and other rivers of bullshit. 
Not to mention, you know, whatever else the day brings. 
And, so, when I finally did engage, a lifetime of backed-up dreams came exploding right out, covered in sludge. 
One after the other. 
Night after night. 
For months upon months. 
* 
They usually appeared in clusters. 
Dreamclusters. 
Sometimes the phenomena occurred two or three nights in a row, but, normally, they spread out a little, like over a week or so. 
There were work anxiety dreams. There were intergalactic and contemporary American civil wars. There were being-in-the-wrong-body-again nightmares, and, from time to time, horror shows featuring politicians – in one instance, the president presided over dinner in the form of a grotesque monster-being with a giant, bloody, rectangular, featureless head – ruining the joy of life and generally fucking things up, just as they do in the Waking. 
Not to be forgotten, meanwhile, there were infestation sequences. These unpleasant affairs – revealing themselves outwardly, through cascades of bugs, or inwardly, via overwhelming sensations of feeling frumpy, dirty or grungy – caused my dreamskin to crawl. 
I mean, who needs this shit. 
No wonder I was ignoring it before. 
There were violence and gunfight dreams – sometimes evolving into one of the full-blown intergalactic or contemporary American civil war conflicts I just mentioned, but other times involving only one asshole or a small group of brutes. The saving graces in these confrontations, if any could be discerned, had to do with finding – or, rather, accessing – power to defend myself and neutralize assailants. 
And how could I almost forget the disaster dreams. You know – the Armageddon-like incidents or other such end-of-the-world scenarios, which, for whatever it’s worth, normally incorporated boulders: like when beautiful Malibu fell into destruction, as enormous stones tumbled down from the flaming Santa Monica Mountains above. 
Look. 
I mean, it wasn’t all hell. 
From time to time, these nerve-wracking self-preservation themes and impending exigencies did, graciously, intersperse with more lighthearted stuff. Like sex with men and women alike, and also celebrity cameos, and, periodically, combinations of the two – for instance, the one where I made out with both Tom Cruise and his former producing partner Paula Wagner (she was a better kisser than he). 
And, lest I neglect to mention, every once in a while I dreamed of Las Vegas – or places that felt like Vegas – a city I’d visited in the Waking only twice so far, most recently to rock climb that fucking 750-foot mountain face in Month Nine: Love. 
* 
Okay. 
Deep breath. 
The point is this: Maybe the Dreaming resorted to such extremes – coloring its messages in the hues of strife and peril – because it had been trying so hard to get through to me, and for so long. 
After all, we were just getting to know each other, the Dreaming Me and I, the Waking Me – but, wait: Am “I” not both? – despite having slept together our whole lives. 
You know. 
Like when you’re in love… 
* 
Oh. 
Hey. 
Yeah. 
There’s this one thing. 
Very early on, the second entry my dreamlog notes, I got to fly. 
How could I have known what that dreamflight – and all those that were to follow – foretold? 
Dreamclusters Converging 
 
The skydiving dreams started when I started skydiving, and, now, as I write these words a year later, they continue unabated. 
At one point, I took a nearly eight-month dreamlog hiatus – it lasted from the second half of One Year through the first two months of Anger. The first dream I recorded after this break was, you guessed it, a skydiving dream. 
I needed to cutaway. My deployment bag had come out of the container and was just flapping overhead, with the main canopy stuck inside – a “bag lock” malfunction, yikes. 
Also, I had pitched late, for whatever dreamreason. 
Egad: a horror show. 
My reserve came out in slow motion, and I slipped into an uncomfortable calm. Gazing down, I found myself over residential hills, much like the sparsely populated desert humps surrounding my home dropzone. 
The jump number I was on in the Dreaming – 48 – was the same one I had reached in the Waking. And, what’s more, at the time, I was (physically) back in New York – a place that usually absorbed me into seemingly dreamless sleeps, even after I had started engaging with the dreamlog. 
* 
To be sure, as it progressed, my dreaming practice often still featured the single-themed dreamclusters I was telling you about before. 
There were sequences with lots of strangers, and a few other celebrity ones. There were several irrational-fear-of-having-bad-breath dreams, which are always particularly irksome because they interfere with social dreaminteractions or instances of potential dreamintimacy with dreambeings. 
There were child and dog adoption dreams, and dreams in which I got to help people, like homeless folks or Justice Sandra Day O’Connor, who stood at an intersection unaware of her destination, due to Alzheimer’s. 
There were rambling house dreams, where I was in either a home that was mine, or possibly mine-but-also-not-mine, or maybe even a property that belongs to the Dreaming – and where I would discover heretofore unknown rooms, entire wings of abodes, hidden away behind a trap door or an illusory wall or some other twist in the thread of reality, a wormhole. 
And, every so often, there was Vegas. 
* 
But, to get back to my point: the skydiving dreams. 
They seemed to cluster more frequently, and with greater intensity, than any other aspect of the Dreaming. 
Indeed, there came a week, right after my first freefly jump, when I dreamed about skydiving every night for a whole week straight. In one, I kept enjoying freeflying after my deployment altitude. In another, I flew over a forest dreamplace – the river below felt inherently familiar from another dream – and opened low, whereupon my deployment bag went into a tree, and I pulled my reserve. 
(Look, I’m not saying that my skydiving dreams adhere to physics – only that I have them.) 
In the final installment of this cluster, the Middle East turned into one giant dropzone, and the sense that men from my past were there crept up on me. 
* 
Two months later, a week-of-skydiving-dreams happened again. 
Cutaway dream – regained consciousness under canopy – spinning – right end cells not opening – chopped it with listless resignation, like on jump 67. Very low by now. Landed in some sort of country club/restaurant – searched and searched for my main and d-bag and pilot chute stuff, some of which had landed in a lake/ocean that was dark but also had light from the sun somehow. Found various wads of cash – 100s in a spot near a door – felt guilty. Asked a lady if the money was hers but she said no, so I smiled and stuffed it in my pocket. 
* 
I mean, I’m not gonna tell you there was like some bright line, you know, where I was experiencing single-themed dreamclusters, and then, suddenly, one night, the individualized clusters converged. 
Because it didn’t happen that way. The process was gradual. 
But then it snowballed. 
Version of a rambling house dream I’ve had before, only I lived in this one with tenants. Rooms I didn’t like – painted grossly, like my LA house when I first moved in. Pipes bursting, water coming. Small fix. 
But then the entire neighborhood – quasi-Mullholland Drive – got it – and the earthquakes started. Houses crumbled to the ground, washing away. A few people flung themselves from windows. 
Escape. 
Tried to dreamcall my wallet and phone – which I’d left back home – through dreamspace, with my hands. No dice. 
Ran into a college friend who looked old and said: I’ve run from here to DTLA – don’t worry, I’ll be fine. Headed down a canyon path toward DTLA, or wherever, behind two guys – police in SUVs came up and stopped to talk to us. 
At one point: a mentally challenged, large assailant made me and the tenants extremely uncomfortable – he had a proclivity to corner women – until a skydiving mentor appeared and I told him I’d wanted to shoot the assailant in the face but had instead pounded his head in with a shovel. I thought he was dead – but his mother nursed him back to consciousness. 
Three days later: 
Intense, enjoyable make-out session with One of the Loves of My Life [the ex who inspired my book To Whom I Could Have Been: A True Love Story] – with some verbal. 
Nice. 
Subsequently: a foursome with three stylish guys in a loft that seemed to belong to Dad – he largely left us alone and behaved and stayed in the living room. I had to shit, which I did in yet another of those exposed toilets situated in the middle of a room that afford no privacy. Took so long the guys almost left; I caught them in the nick of time. Really liked relaxing into how they had to wait because I was in charge. 
And then, a week after that: 
A house I shared with others – although I’d thought the pool was mine. Floated around after getting naked and drinking rainwater collected in a cup. Others’ floatation devices strewn about; people appeared. 
Adventure. 
Hiked in a faraway land; then turned up at a collective living complex with common bathrooms, where various dreambeings lived. 
On my way to a funeral – one or two of the dreambeings led us – and, once there, I climbed down a fire escape and swung to the ground. (Realized I’d been naked in the wrong body and felt sexually aroused/embarrassed about it.) 
The dreambeings awoke some other woman, who’d been sleeping in a bathtub on a circus truck, whereupon this happy cadre of Muppets awoke with her and rose, one by one. We talked about skydiving – 150, 155 jumps – being a newbie – and she encouraged me.  
Hint of Something More 
 
As the dreamclusters unfold and collide, of course, I continue with the EMDR. Only now, whereas in the beginning I was utilizing a desktop computer screen and moving my eyes to the left and right, back and forth, across the lines of light, at this point, out of wonder, I up my game to streaming 360-degree DMT visuals – with vr goggles. Vivid colors and intricate designs spread out in all directions around me, and I can turn my head and follow the movement in this spherical psychic womb, whenever so compelled. 
Yearning to trigger even more effective mind-body integration, meanwhile, I listen to music over noise-cancelling headphones – trance seems to work especially well – and twirl the Baoding balls in circles with my hands. The tingling, smooth metal ball surfaces caress areas of my palms and fingers that normally go unnoticed. 
Energy flows unobstructed through my hands, lightening them until they dance in harmony with the beats pulsing in my ears. 
Chiseling away the binds of perception. 
Releasing gravity into ether. 
Lifting the soul. 
And launching consciousness into somewhere amid the Waking and the Dreaming: an In Between, somewhere the two realms meet and overlap, infusing one another with their individual characteristics, generating uniqueness and blurring any distinction that might separate them. 
As this whirlwind of activity submerges my senses, I replay the prior night’s dreams, which, stirred up and polished like stones on a riverbed struck by flash-flooding, erupt into view, sparkling and pristine. 
I don’t really know why or how these techniques work. 
Only that they do. 
Somehow – perhaps not each and every time, but often enough, nonetheless – the mind-body integration exercises connect me to dreamthreads that I thought I’d lost, or which I grazed for an instant upon awakening but inadvertently let go of on my way to the bathroom or when starting my coffee or whatever; and, by massaging interpretive pathways, these techniques also facilitate receipt of Messages and identification of dreambeings, especially troublemakers, tricksters and foes. 
* 
Two-headed person where I, the girl, wake after all this time and end up falling for the guy on my other side. He reaches his arms around me – and I do the same – for us to hug. I feel so safe and warm. 
We get sliced apart, and he’s like, “Oh, when this happens, it just numbs out and we meld back together.” Except, this time, we ultimately tumble and blend into a single, slightly angry dreambeing that rules over a cult of followers. 
Suddenly I’m separate, hovering. The followers tumble, too – like, off a cliff where everyone resides. I’m trying to take it right to the limit and impress the guy without getting too hurt or dying. 
Hey, what’s this lingering feeling of that tall thin tree I used to climb, when I was little… 
* 
Well, check this out. Wtf. 
Here I am, a couple of years into my dreaming practice and around jump 150 – yes, you’ve sensed it, the Dreaming and the sky are heading toward Convergence in this story – on a run in Crystal Cove, peering down at the canyon, you know, right where I paused for a tree bath back in Month Two: Noticing. 
EMDRing dreams, for me, tends to lend the Waking a luster that persists two or three hours afterward – as though everything I’m seeing, or, perhaps, my vision itself, has enlivened. 
So too this particular morning, when, sure enough, I removed my vr goggles and headphones in awe, emerging from the belly of the very beast I’ve grappled with ever since depression first installed itself overhead in junior high: the brutality we endure from feeling alone, and unloved. 
Fuck that shit. 
All my baggage, like an old skin, has been shed. 
I feel lighter. 
Faintly winged. 
Below, the world glistens and floats. Sunlight pierces tree cover on the gorge floor: The grove shimmers, I imagine, with spiderwebs strung from one trunk or branch to another, electrified in the morning brightness like illuminations that connect lovers. 
What strikes me among so much glimmer is interconnectivity – and how this moment transcends both space and time. 
For, you feel me, look: I am breathing, as you are now, air that those leaves are exhaling… 
our existence depends on them and... 
these same trees were producing oxygen into the same atmosphere that swirled around our planet and gathered into the wind that kept me alive atop a mountain in Petra so long ago... 
wind from same air we get to fly through whenever we leave an airplane door. 
* 
As the theoretical physicist Carlo Rovelli observes in his book The Order of Time: “We can say: I see a table, a chair, a pen, the ceiling – and that between myself and the table there is nothing. Or we can say that between one and another of these things there is air. Sometimes we speak of air as if it were something, sometimes as if it were nothing. Sometimes as if it were there, sometimes as if it were not there. We are used to saying ‘This glass is empty’ in order to say that it 
is full of air. We can consequently think of the world around us as ‘almost empty,’ with just a few objects here and there, or alternatively as ‘completely full’ of air.” 
* 
I gaze out across Orange County at the Santa Ana Mountains – on the other side of which I did my first night jump over in Lake Elsinore, beyond which, a little further, lies my “home” dz (as if they all don’t feel like home), the place on this earth where I did my first tandem skydive with the Puerto Rican – and I take in how, over the course of two decades, I have at last gone full circle, and am ready to go around again. 
I take a deep breath. 
Of that same air. 
And then I run. 
Down into the canyon. 
Toward the grove. 
* 
Oftentimes, on weekends, so many people visit Crystal Cove that the parking lot fills up and closes. Those days, I jog past groups of people everywhere – atop the seaside mountain ridges, on the canyonside trails, in the gorge. 
Today is a weekday, however, and no one is around. 
And so I’m here at the bottom of this canyon, in the middle of nature, miles from a bathroom – you understand, you’re with me here, right? 
Meh. 
Go for it. 
I yank down my running shorts and squat and let the tinkle flow. 
At which point something happens. 
As I’m an inch or two from the ground, vulnerable and exposed, underwear around my ankles, maybe splattered with two or three drops of pee, there comes, from the other side of the grove – somewhere along the path that cuts down the very center of the gorge – a man’s voice, carried by wind. 
“I can hear you breathe,” he sings. 
Shudder. 
Silence. 
There is nothing. 
Only this breeze. 
This gentle breeze laced with terror. 
This air. 
This beautiful, necessary, life-saving, horrifying air – tearing the fabric of reality asunder as it ventures, softly, in and out of my nostrils. 
“I can hear you breathe…” 
  
Jump 208: Touch You in the Sky 
 
Hey, you. 
Let’s catch up. 
There are the first eight jumps after being naked in the sky, all at the Chicks Rock Boogie thrown by Skydive Elsinore, where I spend the weekend freeflying with women – quite the experience in a sport with something like 13% female participation. 
There are many two-way freefly jumps – with whomever I can muster to massacre a sit with me. 
There’s a handful of freefly three-ways. 
The periodic freefly LO jump, whenever I can extract one from the Swarm of Freefly Boys – the Boys themselves still keep brushing me off, or maybe it’s that I’m not aggressive enough – and pin him down in a plane seat next to me. 
A six-way hybrid, where three of us hold a belly circle, while the other three – members of the Swarm – sting their portions of the formation into a sit and – 
OMG – 
WHOOSH – 
The whole group’s terminal velocity accelerates, breathtakingly, as if the center of the universe has caved in. 
Almost every skydive transforms some part of me in some way – but this one especially. 
See, it’s a celebratory 300th jump for the Beaming Girl From Oregon – and my first one with the Boys – and, so, I can’t help but gleam as well, inside and out, now that I am, finally, on a motherfucking skydive with the upper classmen. 
Across from me: the Anvil, sunglasses hiding his eyeballs as usual, even though it’s a sunset jump in early December. And, holding onto my leg straps, on either side: the Young Turk, you remember, the inverted giant sequoia tree with the white eyelashes, and our Incredibly Sweet LO. 
Oh shiiiiit. 
YAAASSSSSSS. 
There are the canopy relative work (CReW) jumps, you know, where I deploy right out of the airplane at altitude – oh dear, I’ve mucked up that exit and now I’m spinning but I can’t take any more time to get stable because if I wait to pitch this goddamn CReW-specific canopy at terminal, the force could break my neck. 
Whoa. 
OMG. 
Now, would you believe it, here I am, less than four minutes later, high-fiving my instructor, who has wound my canopy lines around his shins and shimmied down to my head, in the sky. 
You know, if one of us screws up, we could spin into in a wrap and I’d have to cut myself out with the hook knife he gave me, as we plummet in a heap toward to the earth. 
Also, this parachute I’m borrowing has holes. I mean, it’s obviously still jumpable – I’m flying it, right? – but, it does have holes. 
I mean, what the hell? 
Keep going. 
Just fly. 
Oh, snap – a couple of two larger group freefly attempts – like, with four or five other jumpers. 
Should I really be freeflying with this many people yet? 
Three wingsuit attempts. 
You know the type. 
Fuck. I was so looking forward to skygasms in a wingsuit – but, alas, I’ve been anxiety-dreaming about these jumps two nights in a row, and now I’m totally messing up each one out of apprehension, morphing upon exit into a potato chip made from lead, crumpling through the atmosphere. 
Oh dear. 
Another night jump – this time in a group of three, wherein the Mexican randomly goes to a sit, for some reason, and drops away from us, down into the dark abyss, and I look over at the Israeli in freefall and we’re like WTF. 
And jump 199, where the Incredibly Sweet LO – the one who organized the hybrid and has made time to jump together before – takes me up and flies me in a head-down exit for several seconds, until we break apart and 
oh 
my 
God 
I 
somehow 
fly 
back 
to 
him 
and 
he 
touches 
my knees 
with 
his hands 
and then 
I fly away 
and back once more 
and 
extend my hand 
and 
he takes it 
with his own. 
Hey, remember, from Month Eight: First Times, how much I miss them? – 
well, 
here it is: 
a first time: 
my first freefly dock. 
Ever. 
It happened! 
Just like that. 
Meanwhile, there are lots of belly jumps in between because… well… because I’d been told to avoid solo freefly jumps once I’d learned to maintain stability, otherwise, left on my own, I’d develop bad habits, like backsliding, without knowing it. 
Then some more skydives, of various sorts. 
Until. 
Jump 208. 
Holy shitballs. 
The Anvil is going to do a jump with me?! 
I mean, I get the six-way we ended up on and all that… but… now…  it’s just us? 
On a skydive – together? 
A two-way, he and I? 
Wild. 
We mock-up the exit – standing there in an imaginary sky van, so he can show me how to leave the door and remain upright – or maybe we don’t mock it up and he simply gives me some advice about flying a sit out of that particular aircraft. 
Of course, he kinda doesn’t have to – I’ve done all those sitfly exits into the giant television screen of the earth already, you recall – but, I’m so flattered he’s jumping with me that I just smile and nod, letting my eyes glimmer, if they will. 
“Giant television screen of the earth,” he murmurs, hmmph-ing in approval. 
Upon which we turn to board the plane. 
And, as we lean down to grab our helmets, he whispers: “I’m going to touch you in the sky.” 
* 
At altitude, whichever men are closest raise the door, and the giant television screen of the earth reveals what is – don’t tell anyone – probably too much cloud cover to jump through. 
But, look, the light has turned green, and we can see where the dropzone is – I’m choosing my words carefully here, you realize – and, so, presently, out goes the first group, and the next… 
Our turn. 
I look over my shoulder. 
His eyeballs are concealed behind those eternal sunglasses he wears, and his face remains expressionless. 
“Catch me if you can!” I yell, then slap down my visor and dash out. 
Fuck it, who cares about body positioning – I wanna see this shit. 
I crane my head backward – somehow maintaining stability without tumbling over as my body accelerates – and watch the Anvil leap out a half-second later, into this giant real-life television screen, now in 3-D, and come chasing after me. 
Down and down we go. 
Faster and faster. 
Terminal velocity. 
Ah, damn, he’s not gonna get close enough. 
That sucks. 
It’s still epic tho. 
All this. 
We’re going so fast. 
Hey wait. 
Here he comes. 
Inching closer. 
Closer and closer. 
Fuck, he’s so close. 
But this skydive’s almost over. 
So close. 
So very close. 
OMG. 
Here it is. 
His hand. 
The midnight black of his skin. 
Encircling the pale moon of mine. 
Right before… 
we go speeding through a cloud. 
Healing 
 
It’s been exactly two weeks since I was touched in the sky. I started The Art of Dreaming by Carlos Castaneda yesterday, and, in my dreams last night, I fucking encountered a scout and found my own hands in the very first dreamsequence afterward: 
In a magical swamp-city land that eventually becomes New York, getting ready for Armageddon – along with my brother J. and Mom and Dad and maybe some alternating-identity others. I do manage to notice some details from the outset – including a glowing fish skeleton that rises to the surface of a pond where I am walking on a quasi-gangplank... and then submerges into dark water below. (Holy fuck – a scout.) 
We end up on a rooftop to escape the end of the world, however, buildings begin to heave without relent: There are strong earthquakes that send the cityscape tumbling over like dominoes. I head down a series of black (and, subsequently, white) iron spiral staircases populated by people in a Magritte painting, talking about law school. Happiness wells up within me over being done, or almost done, with that crap, for education – and particularly higher education, especially law school – gears toward annihilation of the individual and destruction of creativity and the self. Impatience nearly overcomes me. 
Meanwhile, the buildings continue falling, and, the next thing I know, I am losing Dad and Mom and J. as I run from one overturning rooftop to the next, propelled like on a hamster wheel across edifices. 
Finally, the ground. A couple of huge rats, hunkered inside crusty light brownish cocoons with goo and ingrown hairs, dangle the from low-hanging cave walls that surround me; I figure they’ve come to eat the dead people all around (though there aren’t any corpses in the immediate vicinity and it’s too early for them to decay and reek). Fuck, I have to fend off an attack from one that seems particularly rabid and brazen. It gnaws at me before I am able to fling it off. 
Now in a car with a guy I don’t know, who substitutes as a family member, and we kiss in sheer terror, with wide eyes – he has the most beautiful dark brown luscious skin – though I am calmer than he. I find my hands to steer us through the rubble and drive away: our car sports a black leather interior – it is a coupe, I believe – with the steering wheel on the right side. 
And then I awake. 
Second sleep: at the Oscars with Mom watching this very fat opera singer or something – who is wearing a gigantic puffy black coat and a massive shimmering golden shawl. She’s just finishing up a mid-presentation performance – then she scurries in a swoosh offstage – only to reappear an instant later, running along the edge of the curtain and nearly knocking over the host as she skids out onto the shiny floor, breasts now exposed, her nipples large and mauve. 
The host topples over too, and it’s a disaster as they both are whisked away. Stunned audience; go to commercials. Utter shame, embarrassment or discomfort – plus an element of rancid, unmitigated curiosity – a mixture that quickly/gradually transitions to stirred carnality – dominating the theater, the universe. 
Ahh, collective relief – like a group expulsion of mind pus. 
Later: three pallid, waif-like aspiring child actors (one whom I think I recognize) horde me – you know, the pandering type, playing a role as if trying to impress every single person they meet, every instant. Their eyes are almost glowing – though their irises are faded but also strangely lulling. I remain wary as a matter of prudence. 
At some point I catch a glimpse of Madonna strutting by in the distance – her fake ponytail billowing like a mane – and I marvel that she moves very lithely for a 60-year-old. 
At another point, I am sitting next to J., who grabs a (right) testicle that suddenly manifests on my body, somewhere near my abdomen – a single, long nerve pangs and pangs and he only tightens his grip as I beg him to let go. 
* 
What astonishes me most: the scout was so much like the one Castaneda wrote about in his own first encounter (read the book, it’s soooooo good); and, I escaped into wakefulness the very instant I needed to by the (apparently challenging) active dreaming practice technique of finding my own hands. 
Hey, wait a minute. 
Did I locate my hands in my previous cutaway dreams? 
I’ll have to start paying closer attention. 
* 
The healing dreams – softening embraces between the Dreaming and the Waking, which budded around a Hint of Something More – effervesce as I progress in this journey: beyond the initial brainflush, beyond those first dreamclusters and their messy convergences, beyond the neuroses and dreck and spiritual scum and strife of conflicting forces and emotions: the stream of growing pains and almost hallucinatory fevers that seemed, at the time, to cramp and retard me, but which were, I can begin to better see, essential and necessary components of learning, of becoming stronger and getting to know features of myself – and reality – that I’d ignored way too long. 
Feel me? 
Reach out, through the ether, and let’s touch. 
You and me. 
We’re on a skydive together. 
We’re flying through the clouds. 
* 
A distinguishing feature of this next phase of the Dreaming that I’ve entered is – in contrast to the many solo, isolating adventures I’d gone on up to now – how well-peopled my nightly excursions have become. 
And the dreamsex. My god. 
There are some truly awesome orgies – typically with a group of men, which is always nice – as well as delightful windows of voyeurism and vicarious pleasure that pop up like flowers. It’s a new dreamplace for me, this emotional paradise, where I finally just say Fuck it and relax into whatever body the Dreaming installs me within – male or female or a combination of both – and subversively relish one unexpected interchange after another. 
Bliss. 
Meanwhile, ever more emissaries and troublemakers and foes – some of which I identify immediately as inorganic beings, that is, streaks of energy from who-the-fuck knows where, and others, whose identities and origins remain unclear – make their appearances. 
I may mistake what these presences are from time to time, however, increasing familiarity has eased me into a dreamversion of the social contract, replete with terms and conditions for engagement with them: contempt and even disdain, where appropriate, but also tolerance, and even, in some instances – who would’ve guessed – affection. 
I mean, it makes sense. 
We all have to get along, don’t we. 
* 
I go through a dreamcluster of self-love and wonderment, where I attend museum exhibits and discover books about my own little life: communications from Beyond that staying alive is, in fact, worth it. 
And I find myself dreamdeciding and dreamwilling and dreamfeeling and dreamthinking with greater facility and ease, not to mention improved dreamattention. For the first time in many years, as I alluded to at the beginning, back in Month One: The Change, I awaken more and more frequently from real rest. 
You know. 
The sleep we yearn for. 
The touch of angels that restores. 
The gentle suggestion there’s something more. 
* 
Epic search dream. In a wilderness-surrounded house at the top of a hill that doubles as a base camp and a jumping off place. I’m in the process of a project – organizing/winnowing – and my valuables get stolen – though only the objects I actually care about, including my wallet. I run around trying to figure out who it was, questioning people – soon enough I even tell a guy to clear out of his room so I can cast a spell – and I try my damnedest, straining to will my stuff back to me through the Dreaming. 
There is a sort of plant-related experiment clustered around some of my remaining belongings – things I don’t give a damn about. Turns out one of the wingsuit organizers from my home dz has taken them – she materializes as an imposter – to conduct some sort of initiation ritual. She laughs in the darkness. I don’t think it’s funny, but also I’m flattered to be getting initiated. 
Suddenly I’m driving adjacent to her – a Waking version of her this time, I believe – talking as if she’s in the same car, until I realize she can’t hear me because she isn’t. I think she’s turning left and so I do, as well – but, again, she isn’t – and now there’s a car chase and someone is coming madly toward me and I gotta swerve over the ruffage and back onto the main road. 
Oh, my: this house! (It’s within a clearing in a forest, hidden away like – my god, it’s my own version of The Cone from Thomas Bernhard’s novel Correction – it has a personality and the details of it are alive: These motherfuckers are some manifestly living inanimate details, for sure). 
Shit, the road to up here has just gotten steeper and steeper and, from the relentless rain, more and more riddled with crevices – threatening to render it untraversable – even by evolving car or flying bike – or whatever contraption this is. 
Fuck wow I’m on the roof and rappelling down into a window to go to the bathroom. (It’s relatively open-plan, like some of the public restrooms I’ve dreamed into before, except by now I’ve learned to engage better and create and enjoy some privacy notwithstanding the voices outside.) 
Hmm. A bit later I’m amongst a group at the house and something very strange is happening to us, as reality breaks down and we go into a sort of overwhelming trip. Cotton mouth. Everything slows down, nearly grinding to a halt; movement is molasses and control is sapped away; we melt into the universe which is pinpointed where we are; and I encounter realizations about personal power and strength, which I suddenly encounter/find/muster up despite myself and against all odds, as the fabric of the universe further dissolves and disintegrates around the edges to reveal a horror-like eternal underlay and confrontational foundation/layer of how things really are. 
We are all getting Messages from another place – transmitted by inorganic beings or other essences in a demonic – but necessary, and abrasive and discomforting but nevertheless possibly not harmful – spirit or occurrence realm, Elsewhere. The Message I receive is, basically: If you just persist and stick with it, everything will be okay. 
I am the first to receive a Message, but then the others’ messages come, too, and things improve slightly, as our individual volition starts to return. 
Later: aha, here we go: I’m in a warehouse of my stuff, getting ready to dispense with it forever – there are upscale gowns and blouses that I don’t exactly recognize and don’t feel anything much for – this sequence feels like when I weeded through my New York closet at Goodbye Time and tossed out virtually everything – at which point I realize I’m in the Dreaming. 
I reach out to grab a bright green dress, it’s the same vivid color as the bright green shirt I discarded from my New York closet in the Waking, not long ago – it shimmers with little circles-flaps, like my purple curtains at home in Los Angeles in the Waking – and I see my hands. I also catch sight of belongings on the top shelf, above me, writing pads I think – but I don’t really care enough to look and find out more. 
Some people are helping me – they’re a bit intrusive and nosey. But, since I understand it’s the Dreaming by this point, I relinquish any remaining hold and let it all go. 
Oh, my stars: liberation, lightness – if a bit poignant and vaguely bittersweet. Goodbyes are hellos to whatever’s next. 
  
Black Holes 
 
Do you remember the first image of a black hole we ever saw, spreading like wildfire across the Internet? Yeah, the deeply orange and black glowing glob that resembles a devil tiger’s eye? 
* 
“Sign me up,” I messaged the Broad-shouldered Former Marine. 
I mean, why the hell not. 
Sure, I hadn’t been planning on it exactly. 
But, sooner or later, I was gonna do it. 
I mean, I’d been keeping a mental list of “things I’d never do” in skydiving – and going through each item, one by one. 
1. Look: I just wanted to cross a tandem off the bucket list – I’d never jump out of an airplane unattached to a professional. 1a. Oh my God, an unattached skydive was the most extraordinary experience of my life. 
2. Okay I’m 41 – all I want to do is see if I can survive 7 jumps for my AFF course. I’d never do more than that, or jump alone. No way. 2a. Oh my God, my first solo jump after completing AFF has blown my fucking mind. 
3. I’ll stop after getting my A-license at 25 jumps. Anything beyond that is absurd. 3a. Oh my God, I got my A-license like five jumps ago and they’ve already got me doing four-ways, six-ways, seven-ways... We get a 3% discount for buying blocks of tickets in cash? Fantastic. 
4. I will stop after my first cutaway. For sure. 4a. I’ll stop after my second cutaway. 
5. I do not need to downsize from a 190. 5a. Oh my God, I thought flying a 170 was incredible but this 150 is really something. 5b. I think poor body position contributed to my second cutaway – I need to keep working on it. 
6. I will never, ever do a nighttime skydive. 6a. Oh my God, skydiving at night is spiritual transformation. 
7. Tunnel time? With those fees? 7a. Oh my God, 20 minutes of tunnel time was really helpful. 
8. Freeflying is totally insa- 8a. WHEEEEEE! 
9. But still, I probably would not do something like a 10-way or group freefly with strangers... 9a. WHEEEEEE! WHEEEEEE! 
10. More tunnel time? With those fees? Are you fucking crazy? 10a. Oh. My. God. When. Can. I. Go. Back. 
* 
That was the first six months. And, as you already know, the CReW and wingsuiting and all the rest came toppling like a house of cards shortly thereafter. 
So, I mean – why the hell not? 
Look. I’ll admit it. 
Two other coincidences made this decision inevitable. 
The first was that I was going to be nearby, up in Ogden, Utah, already, for training from the world-renowned wind tunnel coaches there. (Travel for tunnel was another item that “I’d never do” – a little further down the list.) 
Second, and, even more persuasive, there was the Carpenter connection. 
You see, before I’d met him, the Carpenter had done some acting and film work in Hollywood. One of his projects involved stunts for a blockbuster, on the set of which he became acquainted with notorious BASE jumper Miles Daisher. What’s more, the Carpenter and Miles had not only done a movie together – they’d also run into each other, serendipitously, in Cabo San Lucas. 
So, there it was. 
Could there really be any question why the hell I wouldn’t – I mean, really, any question at all – say Yes to my first BASE jump course, taught by Miles Daisher, at Perrine Bridge in Twin Falls? 
* 
I hadn’t been to Utah since that random high school skiing trip a quarter of a century ago; I couldn’t remember ever having been to Idaho before. 
The landscape splayed out in every direction – a topographic tapestry of open plains bursting up here and there, and everywhere, into startling mountain ranges, the peaks of which kinda reminded me of the position I used to strike, arching up in bed, gasping, whenever One of the Loves of My Life kissed the back of my knees. 
I drove and drove. 
And drove. 
Overhead, the sky tossed and turned in between cloudy and rainy and sunny and clear – likewise reminding me of being in bed with One of the Loves of My Life, when I used to get overcome with emotion I wished would never stop undulating, never stop swelling in universal revolutions, never stop hurtling me in 
alterations among adoration and lust. 
And, whoa. 
Once I reached my destination and turned onto the quiet road at the end of which nestled the house where we’d be staying, my eyes opened in rapture: A rainbow hinted through the sea of mist above the gorge we’d be flinging ourselves into tomorrow. 
* 
Each of us reacts uniquely. 
The Little Hot Guy, lean as a marathoner and as exuberant as an elf, bounds about the living room and into the kitchen – hopping from the floor where he slept, through the walkway and to the countertop where his tea sits brewing, and then back again – all in a second, it seems. Periodically he whoots or hollers, or emits other noises expressing nervous excitement and glee. 
Or whatever we’re all feeling. 
The Hot, Deliberate Move Guy – whose face could be statuary displayed in a museum, and whose upper body comprises mostly arms, such very nice deltoids extending what seems like an entire football field down to a set of perfectly formed, slow-and-intentionally-moving hands – remains largely quiet. You know, just sort of walking around finalizing things, not real things necessarily, but things nonetheless. 
The Broad-shouldered Former Marine, meanwhile, gets angry, exploding over the disappearance of… whatever it is he’s looking for. Everyone understands. 
And I – well, I’m not sure how I’m reacting, at least not how my instincts have defaulted into confronting the dramatically increased likelihood of impending death – though I do know, here on the inside, that I’m convinced I’m going to perish. 
You know. 
That I’m not actually finishing my coffee – as if everything’s normal. 
That I’m not showering and getting dressed – like any other day. 
That I’m not in the car driving back down that curving roadway I drove up last evening, and then across this weird corner of some once glorious town, a slice of small-town America chockful of fast food franchises and chain stores and gas stations, toward the Bridge. 
That, as our jumping off place comes into sight, my brain is not sizzling, and thought and emotion are not setting off like Pop Rocks in my fucking head. 
That I am not stepping into the leg straps of a BASE rig that someone else, somewhere, but who knows who or where, has packed with a single canopy, and no reserve. 
That I am not tightening the chest strap. 
Or following my group, as we head under the walkway and up the stairs around the corner. 
Or making my way across the Bridge – as onlookers gawk, blanketing this netherspot of non-reality in eerie, dirty silence, their saliva almost palpable through the faraway non-distance separating them from us: we, who have become objects, seen through the onlookers’ conflicting sense of awe and desire for carnage: we, these totally crazy people, these nut jobs, these thrill-seeking death flirts, these maniacs whose eyes flame wildly like nothing I’ve ever seen before: afire in a rim of devil tiger orange delineating otherwise all-encompassing, matter-gulping, rationality-devouring black pupils: Fuck, I have seen those images that our eyes have become: They look like that black hole: the horror in us. 
Us. 
Oh my God. 
It’s him. 
Now him. 
Now him. 
Now me. 
I’m climbing over the railing. 
I’m standing there. 
Here. 
It’s my turn. 
My turn to jump. 
To jump – 
To – 
My eyes. 
Oh God – my eyes. 
What am I seeing? 
* 
I would not give up the vortex – this instant of eternity opening up and simultaneously closing forever – that chasms between the second when my feet leave the Bridge and my canopy flowers overhead, a forever neverness in which my gaze shoots out toward the horizon and the world careens away and detonates toward me, with a force beyond the imagination, and the universe lights up – 
I would not give it up – for anything. 
It’d be worth dying for. 
* 
Yesterday I got to be reminded that life is about how many times we get back up again. On my second BASE jump, I had flown into a tree. I could come up with various excuses and explanations, but I think the real reason is that I was (and always will be) still learning, and mistakes we find a way to walk away from are part of this process. I need to remember that perfection remains the moon to shoot for rather than any measure of success. 
Going back to the Bridge for a third jump ranks among the hardest things I have ever done. A stream of nightmare scenarios kept running through my thoughts, and, with my confidence shaken, I came up with a psychosomatic back injury and almost convinced myself that the tree landing had ruined me forever. Things escalated to utterly gnarly in my head. 
But, in the end, a desire for redemption overcame everything else and so I opted to send it. Lifted by the support of my teammates and mentoring from Miles, I climbed over the railing and jumped again. 
Right after I pitched – in that eternity of an instant before canopy deployment – I heard Miles exclaim, “Nice!” And then, the next thing I knew, I was reaching for my toggles and steering where I’d planned to go. 
I met the ground with a Tinkerbell landing somehow – and the joy that surged through me only kept coming as I watched the video later and heard Miles and my teammates cheer. 
* 
I didn’t mention in that social media post how, after the second jump, I’d called the Carpenter and sat there talking to him in the parking lot at the Bridge, waiting for my group to climb back up, over the gorge wall. 
Sensibly, he agreed that I’d done the right thing, sitting the next one out. 
And that I needn’t do another, either this evening or tomorrow or ever again, because two BASE jumps were more than I’d ever needed to begin with, let’s get real, one was more than enough. 
More than enough. 
More. 
* 
At which point Miles appears next to my car window, and he and the Carpenter shoot the shit. 
They haven’t spoken since Cabo, or the movie, whichever came last. 
And now here they are. 
In the vortex. 
That’s probably when I know, deep down inside. 
You’re with me: when I sense, without even needing to know: that, as soon as I muster whatever got me off the Bridge in the first place, I’ll go again. 
Again. 
More. 
Please. 
One more time. 
  
The Intersection: Oblivion 
 
More bodyflight training – in a dreamplace – and it has to be done strategically, carefully, in order for me to take it to another realm of consciousness, which I so very much want to vault into and explore. In a group and must be intentional about those dynamics, as well. One of my feet may be intermittently replaced with a prothesis. The stakes are high because the next level is oblivion – though this goal may be swallowed into the heat and lava – a new state beyond the Threshold (which is neither better nor worse than ones before – it just IS). 
Meanwhile, at one point, I walk into a room to get introduced to a freefly team so I can do video for them and I note one of the members’ behavioral inconsistencies as to the others – but I tell myself not to judge based solely on appearances. That alluring darkness… 
* 
Nostalgia dream for the New York apartment, in which I’m walking around the East Village and then stopping outside the building (not my old building, but now, instead, an old house/mansion), with someone, on a possibly court-related mission that also has to do with the health of a dog I used to have/not have, and then 
I WAKE UP FROM THE DREAM 
INTO A DREAM 
WHERE I’M IN BED WAKING UP 
IN LOS ANGELES. 
But I don’t actually wake up yet, at least not into the Waking, and I’m grateful for everything I have, i.e., the skydiving, and I think, in particular, about the tunnel and some (nonexistent) jumping event. Then I’m with the Puerto Rican from my very first skydive and we’re in bed together and he lies down and I cuddle up next to him and kiss him, but only a little (because I’m worried about my breath, of course) – and then there’s something about his canopy, which I’m suddenly pulling over us for an inspection. Also worried about bugs – picking them off with my teeth – there’s some strange insect that moves around on the human body, like a tiny piece of grass or otherwise deceptive bit of plant nature, and it’s hard to remove. 
Throughout these dreamsequences, I dreamrealize, I’ve been grappling with resolving irreconcilabilities among my consciousness and the Dreaming and the Waking. An inorganic being materialized in the bedroom when I was with the Puerto Rican, for example; however, I disregarded her troublemaking interference so I could commune with him. 
You know, peacefully. 
In oblivion. 
The realm at the tips of each skydive, each dream. 
Each plane ride I leap out the door, each night I drift off to sleep – lulled and yet tantalized in the sky and my bed: I let go into the emboldening humility that comes from yielding to, while simultaneously engaging with, powerlessness over forces beyond human control. 
Anything can happen. 
Here, in this intersection. 
Where extremes meet. 
The heart 
of 
oblivion.  
The Portal: Reminiscences 
 
The Netflix miniseries Russian Doll was shot in my old neighborhood in New York. I went by all those film locations thousands of times – Alan’s character lives half a block from the apartment I moved out of (two weeks before I watched the show) – and I used to buy avocados from the bodega where Nadia’s mom (Chloe Sevigny) got the watermelons. 
Back in the 1990s, one time I was talking with Chloe in her dressing room (at a play I helped produce while working for the theater company I mentioned in Month Four: Nipples, Dicks and the Start) and I kissed her naked shoulder. We hung out and stuff periodically... another time I arranged for us to privately view some wood carvings at the Met on a morning it was closed to the public… an organist was practicing and music filled the otherwise empty museum... as if we were in a movie... 
Anyway, she and I drifted out of touch until we ran into each other two decades later at the Russian & Turkish Baths, which is a few blocks from the bodega. When I told her who I used to be, she goes, “Holy shit, I didn’t even recognize you!” 
And there’s more. 
Nadia’s character (Natasha Lyonne) lives on 5th Street and Avenue B, which is half a block from where I lived right before that last apartment of mine near Alan’s. Would you believe I saw Natasha on Avenue B several years ago – not long after she starred in a play produced by the same theater company I worked for back when we produced the play Chloe was in. Yeah so Natasha and I were crossing the street in opposite directions at Tompkins Square Park – catty-corner to the bar where her character always walks by, and where she and Alan go to get drunk. 
It’s like, I mean, really. 
* 
TFW you’ve been flying shoddily all afternoon because your back layouts and carving suck and then suddenly you realize, hey, there’s another dude in here and so you’re like why the hell not and you relax into your first tunnel 3-way, and, what do you know, there’s your first group freefly tunnel dock – and then, later, on the way home, atop this cloud where you remain, you find yourself reminiscing over an ex – yeah, the guy you fell for on that trip down to Mexico a decade ago, One of the Loves of Your Life – when all of a sudden he calls and you’re like, “Hey, I was just thinking about you,” and he asks what was running through your mind and you’re like, “I just love how we still get to see each other once or twice a year and have sex and it’s about that time, isn’t it,” whereupon he goes, “Look to your right,” and so you do and there he is, in the adjacent lane, smiling and waving, and you both laugh as you continue speeding down the 10 toward those gorgeous oranges and lavenders of a Los Angeles sunset – you guys catch up for a sec and then he goes, “I can’t believe I’m just driving next to you on the freeway, I wasn’t even supposed to be over here, I took a wrong turn,” and you’re like, “Oh, man – that’s nothing, seriously – have you seen Russian Doll yet?” 
* 
The tunnel is, I think, some sort of Portal to an Elsewhere... 
A week later, right around the same spot on the 10, I happened to be reminiscing about my First Love (she’d posted something earlier and suddenly those 25-year-old memories flooded me), when, wouldn’t you know it, our song – Closer to Fine by the Indigo Girls – came on the radio... 
It was, of course, followed shortly thereafter by The Lovecats, which is, in turn, one of the many songs by The Cure that remind me of another First – the First Girl I Ever Kissed... oh my God, holy shit, now that motherfucking memory has almost turned 30, Jesus, how relentless... 
Anyway, when Lovecats concluded, I switched stations, curious what would happen next… 
And so it was that I landed immediately on a cover of another Cure masterpiece, Lovesong, which just tickled all the more because it’s yet another from the soundtrack of our relationship, the First Girl I Ever Kissed and mine... 
I guess I write about these experiences to remember that they really happened, that the underlying memories must be just as real as well, and that reality itself infuses each day with a dream that keeps ebbing and flowing into oceans of time and wow... 
Thus life remains neither what I imagined nor would have asked for – I always hoped that one of these Loves might last ever so much closer to forever and we’d share a lifetime of memories together, rather than this lifetime of memories I have ended up sharing with Countless Loves – but, hey, things could be a whole lot worse and perhaps now I can simply do what I’m slowly learning in the tunnel, the Portal: relax into the speed at which it’s all flying by and let myself lift… 
into air... 
  
Jumps 264, 299 and 300: Closer 
 
14. Angle jumps?! Too dangerous. 14a. Wow – this angle camp has changed my life. The Skydiving Beast strikes again: I got lucky on our 2nd and 3rd jumps, but, tbh, I have been chasing the group on every other skydive this entire weekend. It’s awful. My logbook includes entries such as: “I suck.” “I still suck.” “Miserable.” I am so disappointed in myself that I get into the car and leave before one last jump. I’m going to give up skydiving, I decide. I’m useless. But, then, at the first stoplight I hit on the four-hour drive to Vegas, where I’m going to stay the night before heading up to Ogden – wait, why am I going there for tunnel training, if I’m going to stop jumping? – I find myself declaring, out loud, “I am not a quitter!” So, I swing a U-turn, speed back to the dz, hop on the plane and – FINALLY – end up in proximity with the group for a few seconds. 
Jump 264 is in the books. 
* 
The LO with the angular jawlines. 
Yeah, the first LO I ever tried freeflying with. 
Here we are again. 
Jump 299. 
A head-down skydive together – the first one where I can feel myself… 
giving in… 
relaxing… 
and smiling back. 
* 
Hey, look – here we are, together once more, on jump 300 – an angle, our second skydive in a row today – and, will you fucking look at that, here you are, right above me, tracking across the sky, so near my eyes I see the stubble heavily dusted across those angular jawlines of yours. 
“You were close enough for me to kick your chest,” you say, once we’re back on the ground. 
Is that a thing – kicking people in the chest on an angle jump? 
“Yeah,” I ruminate, “that’s the closest angle I’ve ever been on.” 
* 
Funny how we have to work so hard, exert so much time and energy, spend so many dollars and hours and minutes – hurling years of life-force into oblivion – all to learn one thing: 
How to relax. 
And let go. 
And fly. 
  
Within a Dream 
 
Dreamwake to a dream within a dream. Nested dream: a dreamsequence that meanders into a sort of auditorium, where I join some other women in box seats up above – feels very high school-y, like maybe a teacher has organized the event or something. We are here to observe the beginning of a play and get things started somehow. 
I am surprised to see that we are leaving almost right after the beginning – I thought one of the women would want to stay. (Are they go-with-it emissaries?) 
At some point, I’m skinny dipping in a pool with a freefly LO from the Waking and maybe a few other skydivers. Some girl comes up to me in the water and offers to lend me her bikini bottom because it’s too small for her (but, I dreamthink, I went through surgery and everything, why would I do that?). 
Either before or after, we are in one of the women’s apartment, or possibly her house, hunching over a laptop and watching video footage. I’m like who is that person-shape of dancing sparkles – there are glass beads like painted onto a woman’s figure from behind – her body moves as reflective liquid, a robot creation or something out of a movie – but then the image turns around and I see the front and it’s I – I am the shimmering being. 
I sheepishly ask if we can play the footage again – but the woman is onto me and she’s not going to have any of it and I feel ego-centrical and small and found out. 
And, so, to escape, I wake up… to another dream within this one… in which I dreamthink, “That was so vivid I have to go write it down, but I’m tired so I’ll wait…” – just like I do normally except that I’m not awake into the Waking yet… but then I do wake shortly thereafter. 
Wait, hold on… I’ve woken into a skydiving dream, in which I am going too fast through the air – I cannot slow down – I am rushing and rushing toward a gigantic formation below – they are a belly group and somehow I am heading straight for them – I have to pull very high and then immediately grab my rears to steer – this action causes the inflation of my canopy to stall – oh fuck I am rushing out of the sky with a partially inflated main – it won’t open – it won’t open – it won’t open – so at last I cutaway… and awake. 
* 
Two days before, I’d been on a head-down jump with the Young Turk. 
“Wanna do a two-way?” he had asked. 
“Sure,” I had said, after a pause, trying to play it cool. “Why not?” 
He manifested us, and, a few minutes later, we stood face-to-face, in the door to the mock-up, going through our exit, holding hands – as we would be doing again shortly thereafter, 12,500 feet above the earth. 
* 
Once that dream of a jump had passed, I ran into the Anvil in the parking lot. He goaded me to amp up my landing game, and showed me – by swerving that triangular back of his across two parking spaces, as if he were a giant flying saucer – how to swoop. 
Oh shit. 
Check it out. 
He wants me to excel and become a sick ninja – just like he and the other Boys. 
* 
Boys. 
On the drive back home, my thoughts drift from these two to another: the Carpenter. 
I consider how exquisitely those beautiful hands of his have held our friendship these past few years – just as gently, come to think of it, as the Young Turk took my hand in the door of the airplane on our jump together, and likewise as the Anvil gestured and demonstrated canopy angles during our conversation, with his. 
Yeah so here’s the deal. 
Everything since I almost killed myself happened only because I didn’t, and, sad though it makes me to remember unrequited love, I remain grateful that the Carpenter reciprocated with friendship, instead of an affair. 
For, if we had started down a different road together, then none of what you’ve read would have happened. 
I would not have paused each morning to notice at least one thing worth living for from the day before. 
I would never have learned to fly. 
The Dreaming would have remained unknown to me. 
And I wouldn’t have met those two skybrothers – or any of the others. 
So. 
You see what I’m getting at. 
This – all this – is why we call it falling in love, and not standing. 
You know. 
I know you do. 
When we look into each other’s eyes. 
As we freefall together. 
Freefall into love. 
You know. 
We’re the same. 
You and the Shimmering I. 
Looking into each other’s eyes. 
Venturing a little closer to forever. 
Expanding until our spheres of awareness overlap. 
And we reach out and touch. 
This instant of eternity together.  
Epilogue 
 
I took three trips to Utah that spring – four, if you count the BASE interlude bisecting the first sojourn – for tunnel training with the coaches in Ogden. 
Each time, on the drive up there, I saw a car accident on the 15, about half-way between Las Vegas and Salt Lake City. In number one, it appeared that a semi and two or three cars had skidded off the highway. Number two was when the sky clouded over and started hailing – quite suddenly, before anyone could slow down – and the car in front of me fishtailed, and then swerved off the shoulder, into a ditch. Number three, yet another off-road mess, involved a couple of cars that collided near a lake outside Cedar City – right around where I happened to have not only one, but two conversations with a college friend of mine, about how to find meaning in life now that we’re older. 
I could not help but appreciate the import of these accidents, which served, for me, as reminders of how vulnerable I am, especially when I lapse into complacency. 
It’s more than just falling asleep – a very odd evolutionary feature, if you stop and think about it, entering a state of total defenselessness on a nightly basis. It’s more than just leaping from an airplane – a very odd activity, if you stop and think about it, intentionally entering an emergency. 
Because of whatever compulsion drives us to seek splendor. 
Anyway. 
You know the feeling I am getting at? 
The one that descends, like a hurricane, after a close scrape or horrible loss? 
The searing gratitude that the breath we just drew was not our last? 
I know you do. 
* 
It is shortly after the third accident on the 15, as I emerge from a wave of survivor’s guilt, and switch around satellite radio stations, trying to find something good, that I chance upon a broadcast of the BottleRock Festival, live from Napa, California, and crank up the volume: I love Imagine Dragons. 
And by love, I mean, like, whoa. 
What a surprise to hear Dan Reynolds speak so openly, in between songs, about his struggle with depression, which, he relates rawly, began in junior high. 
Wow – check this shit out: He’s opening up about how he started seeing a therapist back then, as a kid, and has continued with therapy ever since. 
Good heavens, now he’s talking about how we, as a society, must end the stigmatization of depression. 
And how, even if we are depressed or in need of help, we’re not broken. We’re still us. 
It’s raining heavily now – not quite as intensely as the hailstorm moments ago – but in a torrential waterfall from the sky, nonetheless. 
He’s pleading… 
I have to slow down, the rain’s pouring so hard. 
Pleading… 
Don’t crash your fucking car, Zoe – remember what you just saw. 
To anyone who’s ever experienced depression. 
This is intense. I really can’t see. 
“Please,” he says, out into nowhere, everywhere, for anyone listening: “never take your life from us.” 
* 
Vegas. 
I stopped there for at least a meal on each leg of each trip to Utah, and a few times I stayed overnight, to catch a Cirque du Soleil show or just walk around. 
As you’ve probably guessed by now: Yes, I adore Vegas. 
Absolutely adore it. 
I mean, where else – except perhaps in the sky or a dream – can we feel so free? 
Should I go ahead at this point and relate that the BottleRock broadcast is when I learned Imagine Dragons are from… Vegas? 
WTF. 
* 
Look, I could go on and on about the breathtaking majesty of national parks I made detours to on the Utah journeys… 
I feel like we could talk forever and a day about the hike in Zion to Angels Landing, early in the morning, a mountaintop of mountaintops where, after making my way across those high, exposed rock faces – from which people have fallen and died – it seemed so right to sit down and look out at the edge of reality, tearing up with gratitude for every breath I had ever taken up to then and ever would take. (“Take” is a funny word for a breath, don’t you agree, as if we are stealing?) 
We could try, in vain, to put Arches into words, smiling at the paucity of language, which would fall so woefully short of the magnificent otherworldliness imbuing that place, destined to slip further and further away from our grasp, with every insignificant syllable… 
But, I think, the most appropriate spot to commence closing would be Mesa Arch in Canyonlands, you know, a spot on someplace called an “Island in the Sky” – one thousand feet above massive gorges carved out of earth by the Colorado and Green Rivers. 
For, as we find one another at long last, it is here where I am sitting, quietly thinking back on everything I’ve ever seen or done, you feel me, the sheer 
captivating magnitude of what it means to be alive – when, in an instant of eternity, this moment we share, a gust comes blasting up the canyon walls, and crests, enveloping us in a warm caress. 
As if the air itself is a million hands of God, raising our chins softly and lifting our gaze out at a dreamscape vaster than anything we might have otherwise conceived. 
Much like those faraway chasms in Petra – widened into an instant of eternity by the decades in between us – wouldn’t you agree? 
* 
Jump 313. Just some random number, nothing special. 
But still. I’m nervous because it’s a new dropzone, the ground winds have just picked up for the afternoon and the fuckers are, conveniently, blowing straight across the landing area toward some power lines – oh dear – and also because, well, I’m about to leave a motherfucking airplane at altitude, and, if I weren’t slightly apprehensive, then, frankly, there would be a problem. 
But, look, if there’s an option to jump above Moab, overlooking Arches and Canyonlands and something called an “Island in the Sky,” let’s get real, how can you not make a skydive? 
At least one. 
Even so. 
Squished in the back of this tiny plane, where the air’s getting chillier and chillier with every foot we ascend, I wonder: What in the actual fuck? 
I mean, srsly. 
What the hell? 
Do I really need to be doing this? 
Okay, red light. 
Door’s open. 
Damn, the air is cold up here. 
Way colder than you’d think down on that hot ass ground. 
You know, the ground? Where most people stay? 
Yellow light. 
I gently tighten my hands around the exit grab bar, and look down. 
Alright this spot’s kinda long. Like srsly long. 
Should I give it a sec or two – or three? 
You know, like, wait unt- 
Green light. 
Jump. 
  
 
 
“Always try to keep a patch of sky above your life.” 
– Marcel Proust, Swann’s Way 
  
Acknowledgments 
Thank you so much to the first readers of this book: Kathy Handley, Andy Shutz, Aria Vela, Monica Belvel Wegner, and my mom, Carol Dolan. 
Thank you – with all my heart – to my skyfamily, and everyone who has graciously given me life along this journey so far. 
And, as always, thank you for reading. 
